                      CURRENT ZONING ORDINANCE REVISIONS

                                          CHAPTER 1

                                      ADMINISTRATION

                        ARTICLE A. APPLICATION PROCESSING

8-1A-1: PURPOSE:
8-1A-2: DUTIES AND AUTHORITY:
8-1A-3: APPLICATION PROCESS:
8-1A-4: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS:
8-1A-5: PROCEDURES FOR HEARINGS ON ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:
8-1A-6: PUBLIC HEARING PROCESS:
8-1A-7: TIME COMPUTATION:
8-1A-8: INDEFINITE DEFERRAL PROCESS:
8-1A-9: REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION:
8-1A-10: APPEAL; FORM AND CONTENT:
8-1A-11: REQUEST FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION FROM ANNEXATION INSIDE AN
AREA OF IMPACT
8-1A-11 12: FEES:

8-1A-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the roles, responsibilities, and processes in the
administration of permits as authorized by this title consistent with Idaho Code section 67-6502
et seq., as amended.

8-1A-2: DUTIES AND AUTHORITY:

A. Planning Administrator: The administrator shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by
a majority of the city council as the administrative official for this unified development code. For
the purpose of this Title, Planning Administrator shall also refer to their authorized planning
staff. The administrator or his or her authorized staff shall administer and enforce this title and
fulfill all the duties imposed by law including, but not limited to:
1. The administrator shall make interpretations in the enforcement and administration of this title
including, but not limited to, those in this article and the following:
a. Conduct investigations of structures and use of property, as are necessary, to determine
compliance with the regulations of this title;
b. Order the abatement of violations of this title and aid in prosecuting such violations;
c. Withhold any zoning compliance certificates, building permits and/or certificates of
occupancy on any property where structures or uses are in violation of this unified development
code; and
d. Enforce penalties for violations in accord with this title.
2. The administrator shall provide information to the public on planning and zoning matters.
3. The administrator shall receive and examine all applications including, but not limited to, with

                                                 1
the consent of the owner, enter upon any property to make examinations and surveys; maintain
records of all materials and correspondence related to land use applications; transmit to outside
agencies and provide written notice to surrounding property owners on all council hearings;
maintain land use records of the council hearings and actions thereon. By signing the required
application(s), the owner provides consent for the administrator to enter their property for
inspection.
4. The administrator shall transmit to the council all required applications related to this title.
5. The administrator shall certify all certificates of occupancy upon completion of zoning review.

8-1A-3: APPLICATION PROCESS:

A. Application Requirements:
1. General requirements: Applications shall be on forms provided by the city and be
accompanied by a fee as established by the city council.

B. Determination of Completeness:
1. An application shall contain all information deemed necessary by the administrator and as
required by this code.
2. Upon receipt of a complete application, the administrator will issue a notice of application
acceptance and completion. Incomplete applications will not be accepted by the City.
3. The administrator shall begin processing the application once the application is deemed
complete.
4. Except for applications requiring administrative review, once the application is complete, the
City will notify the applicant in writing of the scheduled public hearing date. Scheduling of
applications for public hearing shall be at the sole discretion of the administrator.

5. Pre-application meetings are required for all zoning applications.

C. Request for City Council Review: An applicant, an affected person or a city council member
may ask the city council to review any decision of the administrator by following the provisions
set forth in section 8-1A-5.

8-1A-4: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS:

A. The administrator and/or city council may recommend/require conditions of approval that are
deemed necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and prevent undue adverse
impacts on surrounding properties.

B. Where notice is required, the administrator shall notify all property owners of record (as listed
in the current records of the county assessor) of time and place, and a summary of the
application, within a minimum of three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of subject
property. The administrator may determine, or other applications provided for in this title may
require, that notice be sent to property owners of record whose properties are farther than the
required minimum radius.

       1. The following uses shall also require notice within one thousand feet (1,000’) of the

                                                 2
           property being considered:

               •   Adult business/adult entertainment
               •   Airport/aircraft landing field (public or private)
               •   Asphalt plant
               •   Bar/tavern/lounge/drinking establishment
               •   Chemical manufacturing plant
               •   Concrete batch plant
               •   Feedlot
               •   Flammable substance storage
               •   Junkyard
               •   Manufacturing plant
               •   Meatpacking plant
               •   Mine, pit or quarry including accessory pit, requiring administrative or
                   conditional use approval
               •   Power Plant
               •   Processing plant
               •   RV Park
               •   Salvage yard
               •   Shooting range (outdoor)
               •   Vehicle wrecking yard
               •   Wireless communications facility

C. Where notice is required, the administrator shall notify all pertinent agencies.

D. The administrator shall provide the applicant written findings of fact and conclusions of law
(written decision) in accord with Idaho Code section 67-6519 stating the reasons for the decision
reached. All conditions of approval shall be attached to the written decision.

E. Written notice of the administrator's decision shall be sent to the applicant. Any affected
person(s) aggrieved by the administrator's decision may submit a written request for city council
review in accord with section 8-1A-5. The administrator's decision is not final until the end of
the fifteen (15) day appeal period.

F. Affected Persons. An affected person is a person having a bona fide interest in real property
which may be adversely affected by the approval, denial or failure to act upon an application for
a subdivision, variance, special use permit and such other applications required or authorized by
this Code. See Idaho Code Section 67-6521.

8-1A-5: PROCEDURES FOR HEARINGS ON ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS:

A. Request for an Interpretation of an Ordinance: In the administration of this title, an
interpretation of an ordinance may be made by the administrator.

B. Requests for City Council Review of a Decision of the Administrator: All requests for review

                                                 3
shall be filed in writing with the city clerk within fifteen (15) days after the written decision is
issued. The request shall include the following information:
1. The decision being requested for review;
2. The name and address of the person requesting the review and their interest in the matter; and
3. The specific grounds upon which the request is made.
C. Hearing Scheduled: The city clerk shall schedule the hearing before the city council at the
next city council meeting date, following any pertinent requirements provided by section 8-1A-6.

D. City Council: The city council, by majority vote, in reviewing the administrator's decision,
may uphold, deny, amend or modify the decision by imposing additional or different conditions
and limitations.
1. If the decision of the administrator is upheld, the city council shall issue a written decision
stating the decision and the reasons for the decision.
2. If the decision of the administrator is overruled, amended or modified, the council shall issue a
written decision and send the matter back to the administrator for action consistent with the
council’s decision.

E. Notification: Within ten (10) days, after a decision has been rendered by the city council, the
administrator shall send a copy of the written decision to the individual requesting the city
council review and the applicant, as may be applicable.

8-1A-6: PUBLIC HEARING PROCESS:

A. The following applications require public hearings: Annexation and zoning, deannexation,
comprehensive plan text amendments, comprehensive plan map amendments, conditional use
permits, floodplain text amendments, planned unit developments, preliminary plats, unified
development code text amendments, variances, and zoning map amendments (rezones).

B. Preapplication Meeting: Applications requiring a public hearing require a preapplication
meeting with the administrator prior to holding a neighborhood meeting. The applicant shall
provide a concept plan to the administrator detailing the proposed development at the time of
scheduling the preapplication meeting. Preapplication meetings shall be good for 6-months prior
to submittal of an application. The administrator may waive a preapplication meeting when
deemed appropriate.

C. Neighborhood Meetings:
1. Required: For public hearings involving annexations, rezones, variances, conditional use
permits, preliminary plats, planned unit developments and property owner initiated
comprehensive plan map amendments, applicants are required to hold a neighborhood meeting to
present the proposed project to the neighbors, answer questions and receive comments prior to
the submittal of an application.
2. Notice: It shall be the sole duty of the applicant to provide written notice of the neighborhood
meeting to all property owners of record within the radius required in subsection 8-1A-4B of this
article. The City shall provide the radius labels to the applicant, by request, for a fee.
3. Advance Notice and Timing of Meeting: Notice of the meeting shall be provided at least seven
(7) days prior to the meeting. The meeting shall be held not more than twelve (12) months nor

                                                 4
less than one (1) business day prior to the submittal of an application.
4. Hours Stipulated for Holding Meeting: Neighborhood meetings shall start on Saturday
between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., or on a weekday between six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. The meeting shall not be on a Sunday, a
holiday, a holiday weekend, or on the day before a holiday or holiday weekend.
5. Location: Neighborhood meetings shall be held at one of the following locations: on the
subject property; at the nearest available public meeting place including, but not limited to, a fire
station, library, school, church or community center; or at an office space with suitable meeting
facilities if the facilities are within the corporate limits of the City of Star.
6. Written Verification: The application materials shall include a copy of the provided
neighborhood meeting notice, a copy of the neighborhood radius list and map, and written
verification of the neighborhood meeting, which shall include an attendance roster.

D. Posting of Public Hearing Notice by Applicants:
1. All applicants shall post the subject property, except that posting is not required for a unified
development code text amendment, vacation, comprehensive plan text amendment, or city
initiated comprehensive plan text or future land use map amendments.
2. Time: Not less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the applicant shall post a copy of the
public hearing notice of the application on the property under consideration and provide an
affidavit of posting, with dated photos, to the administrator.
3. Notice:
a. Sign Material: The sign(s) shall consist of four foot by four-foot (4' x 4') plywood or other
hard surface mounted on two (2) four inch by four-inch (4" x 4") posts or attached to another
administrator approved support in such a manner that it is perpendicular to the roadway along
which the sign is posted, and the bottom of the sign is at least three feet (3') above the ground.
b. Purpose and Contents of Sign: Centered at the top of the four-foot by four-foot (4' x 4')
signboard(s) in six-inch (6") letters shall be the words "Public Hearing Notice, City of Star" and
the date and time of the hearing. In addition, each sign will inform the public of the nature of the
hearing, address of the hearing location, detailed information of the proposal to be considered, a
city contact number, the location of the development and the name of the applicant, and if
applicable, the proposed development. Each sign shall be painted white, and the letters shall be
painted black and shall appear on both sides. An example of this sign is set forth below:




                                                  5
FIGURE 8-1A-6(a)
PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE SIGN EXAMPLE




c. Sign Placement: The signs shall be posted on the land being considered along each roadway
that is adjacent to the subject property boundaries. The sign(s) shall be located on the property,
outside of the public right of way. If the sign cannot be placed on the property and still be clearly
visible, the sign may be placed within the right of way if the applicant can obtain the consent of
the owner of the right of way (ITD/ACHD/HD4). The administrator may modify the location of
the sign(s) on a case-by-case basis.
d. Proof of Posting: The applicant shall submit a notarized statement and a photograph of the
posting to the city no later than seven (7) days prior to the public hearing attesting to where and

                                                  6
when the sign(s) were posted. Unless the certificate is received by such date, the public hearing
will be canceled.
e. Sign Removal: The signs shall be removed no later than seven (7) days after the public hearing
for which the sign has been posted. A fine may be initiated for failure to remove sign. Fine
amount to be determined by Council.
f. Failure to post the property properly or within the required timeframe will result in
postponement of the public hearing and any additional posting and re-noticing fees will be paid
for by the applicant.
g. Alternative posting: The administrator may approve an alternative method of posting in certain
circumstances for specific applications. The administrator shall make this allowance on a case-
by-case basis. An example of an allowance for alternative method would be a parcel that does
not have frontage on a public street.

E. Mailing and Publishing of The Public Hearing Notice:
1. Legal Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the city shall publish a
notice of the time and place and a summary of the application in the official newspaper of the
city or as required by law.
2. Radius:
a. Time Of Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the city shall send a
notice by first class mail of the time and place, and a summary of the application to all property
owners of record within the radius required in subsection 8-1A-4B of this article.
b. Notice to Other Jurisdictions: The administrator shall send notice of the application to other
jurisdictions with interest and/or authority over the application, allowing a minimum thirty (30)
days to respond, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) Other jurisdictions with joint jurisdiction;
(2) Appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or districts and drainage districts;
(3) Health and transportation authorities; and
(4) School districts.
(5) See Idaho Code 67-6511(2)(b) for statutory alternate forms of notice
(6) Staff reports will be available to the public at least five (5) days prior to the public hearing.
(7) Letters from the public are required to be received by noon one week prior to the public
hearing in order to be included in the Council review packets, or on the previous working day
prior to the public hearing in order to be considered part of the record.
(8) Letters from agencies having jurisdiction are required to be received a minimum of seven (7)
days prior to the public hearing.

F. Public Hearing:
1. Procedures for Legislative public hearings: Public hearings in legislative matters brought
pursuant to requirements established by the Local Land Use Planning Act should take place after
the City has provided notice as required by law. Prior to publishing notice of a legislative public
hearing, a draft of the legislative proposal (Ordinance, Comprehensive Plan Amendment or
Unified Development Code Amendment) should be prepared and be available for public
inspection no later than the day the notice of public hearing is published.

2.    Procedures For Quasi-Judicial Public Hearings: Quasi-judicial hearings involve site-specific
     decisions (such as rezoning specific property) as opposed to legislative hearings which

                                                  7
require decisions that have a broad application (such as a change in the text of a
comprehensive plan or zoning ordinance, which does not necessarily affect one (1) specific
parcel of land). Quasi-judicial public hearings should follow the order of events set forth
below.

   a. Mayor/Council President or designee announces the item for Council consideration and
   opens the public hearing. The Council shall not begin deliberations until all testimony
   and evidence has been presented. No person shall be permitted to speak at a public
   hearing until such person has been recognized by the Mayor/Council President. If there is
   a question of "conflict of interest", as defined by Idaho Code section 67-6506, for any
   Councilmember, it shall be disclosed at the beginning of the hearing and, if the Council
   finds a conflict of interest exists, the disclosing Councilmember shall step away from the
   Council and not participate in deliberations or decisions for that item and shall rejoin the
   Council after action on that item is concluded. Any information received by a
   Councilmember other than during the public hearing shall be disclosed at the beginning
   of the hearing. Any late-arriving reports or public input may cause a delay in the
   proceedings while council reviews the new information.

   b. Applicant describes the application and reasons it complies or does not comply with
      plans, ordinances and standards.

   c. The planning and zoning administrator, or designee reports why the application
      complies or does not comply with plans, ordinances and standards. They may
      introduce additional information, including but not limited to agency reports and
      reviews, or additional staff recommended conditions of approval.

   d. Individuals/spokespersons testify why an application complies or does not comply with
      plans, ordinances and standards. Speakers shall not be interrupted by the audience.
      Questions from the decision makers should be asked of the person testifying before
      that person leaves the podium whenever possible. Public officials, when recognized,
      shall be allowed to question the speaker and the speaker shall be limited to answer
      questions asked. The question-and-answer period shall not be included in the speaker's
      time limit. Any person not conforming to these procedures may be prohibited from
      speaking during a public meeting. Should any person refuse to comply with such
      prohibition, he or she may be removed from the room by order of the Hearing Officer.
      Testimony should be in the following order:

      i. Those testifying the application complies,

      ii. Those identifying subjects not discussed in the application, applicant's testimony or
          planning and zoning official report,

      iii. Those testifying the application does not comply,




                                             8
         iv. The Chairperson/Mayor or Decision-makers may ask questions to the administrator
            and/or other City Staff relating to any previously discussed questions from the
            record.

          v. Rebuttal testimony from the applicant. Decision-makers should ask any final
            questions. Only information from the record can be rebutted. If the applicant testifies
            about new facts, then others testifying must be given an opportunity to respond to
            the new facts.

       e. The Chairperson/Mayor closes the public comment portion of the hearing by
          declaration or Commission/Council motion.

       f. Council deliberates toward a decision. Council may ask the planning and zoning
          administrator or designee any additional questions during this time.

       g. The Council continues the matter for additional information or makes a verbal decision
          by majority vote, followed by a signed written decision that is legally considered a
          "final decision" that can be appealed by an affected person. The final decision should
          include a reasoned statement that explains the criteria and standards considered
          relevant, the relevant contested facts relied on, the rationale for the decision based on
          the applicable criteria and provisions of plans, ordinances or standards, pertinent
          constitutional principles and factual information contained in the record.

       h. The Council shall decide, an application is approved, approved with conditions, or
          denied. If denied, the Council shall identify what the applicant can modify in the
          application in order to be approved.

       i. The administrator shall provide the applicant written findings of fact and conclusions
          of law in accord with Idaho Code sections 67-6519 and 67-6535 stating the reasons for
          the decision reached. Conditions of approval shall be attached to the written decision.

       j When a final decision has been made, as a result of the approved findings of
         fact/conclusions of law, the City shall send a copy of the final decision promptly by
         electronic mail, or first-class postage prepaid U.S. mail, to the applicant and to an
         affected property owner who has requested notice of the final decision.

       k. Applicants, or an affected property owner as defined in Idaho Code 67-6521, shall
          have fourteen (14) days after a final decision to request reconsideration by the final-
          decision maker, and must identify specific deficiencies in a final decision. Failure to
          request reconsideration may invalidate a subsequent judicial appeal. After considering
          the identified deficiencies, the final decision about the reconsidered request shall be
          issued and distributed to the applicant and to an affected property owner who has
          requested notice of the final decision.

3. If the council finds that it does not have sufficient information to make a decision, it may
continue the public hearing. The council may also choose to conduct a workshop session with the

                                                9
applicant to address questions and issues related to the application.
4. The council may require or recommend conditions of approval that it deems necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare and/or to prevent undue adverse impacts on
surrounding properties.
5. After the public hearing is conducted, the council may approve, approve with conditions,
deny, table to a date certain, or remand to the administrator, the application request.
6. The council action shall be made within ninety (90) days after receiving all information to
make a decision, acceptance of the application and submittal of any necessary agency
correspondence, or ninety (90) days from the last meeting where the application was considered
and postponed from, if additional information is not needed.

8-1A-7: TIME COMPUTATION:

In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this title, the City shall count calendar
days. The written decision date shall be the date of the hearing at which written findings are
adopted by the city council. If no hearing is held on the matter, the written decision date shall be
the date written notice of such decision is mailed to the applicant.

8-1A-8: INDEFINITE DEFERRAL PROCESS:

When action on an application has been deferred indefinitely at the applicants' request, the
applicant shall pay an additional fee to cover the cost of re-advertising before the application is
scheduled for a public hearing. An indefinite deferral does not prevent the administrator and/or
Council from initiating updated Code or policy requirements on any pending application.

8-1A-9: REQUEST FOR RECONSIDERATION:

A. Any applicant or affected person seeking judicial review of compliance with the
provisions of this section must first seek reconsideration of the final decision within fourteen
(14) days, as required by Idaho Code 67-6535.

To request reconsideration, an applicant or affected person must meet the following criteria:
1. The requesting party must have been a party in the underlying action in one of the following:
the city; the property owner of the subject property; the applicant for the project; or other
affected party; and
2. The request must be in writing, accompanied by the appropriate fee, and presented to the City
no more than fourteen (14) calendar days after the council action and final decision (findings of
fact, conclusions of law) have been rendered; and
3. The request must state a basis for the request and a brief statement of issues and decision that
the requesting party is asking to be reconsidered; and
4. The request must include but is not limited to: the party requesting reconsideration has
relevant information; and the relevant information was not previously presented and is in
response to something brought up at the previous hearing; and the information was not
previously available.

B. Consideration: The council will consider the request and provide a written decision to the

                                                 10
requesting party within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for reconsideration.

C. If the City Council Approves the Request: The requesting party must pay the fee for a new
public hearing within ten (10) calendar days of council's reconsideration. If the payment is not
made to the city clerk within the specified time frame, the city council shall be notified at their
next regularly scheduled meeting and the request for reconsideration shall be rescinded.
D. All Noticing Shall Be Done in The Same Manner As All Public Hearings: If the applicant for
reconsideration is not the property owner, they may post the notice of hearing sign that is
required by ordinance in the right of way, if they have permission of the appropriate authority.
The city council may waive this requirement, excepting publication costs. The city council shall
consider all relevant facts regarding the reasons the property has not been properly posted and
may direct any reasonable measures it wants to assure that the public has appropriate notice. The
new hearing shall be conducted in the same manner as all public hearings.

E. Public Hearing: The administrator will schedule a new public hearing for the application as
allowed by this code and all noticing requirements shall be mandatory. The public hearing shall
be limited to a discussion of the new information and the ultimate decision shall be a final action
of the city council. No request for reconsideration may be accepted by the administrator on the
decision of the city council from this hearing.

F. Number of Requests: One request for reconsideration by any party as stated in subsection A1
of this section, may be sought on any project.

8-1A-10: APPEAL; FORM AND CONTENT:

Any city council decision may be appealed to a court of appropriate jurisdiction in accordance
with the procedures established in Idaho Code.

8-1A-11: REQUEST FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION FROM ANNEXATION INSIDE AN AREA
OF IMPACT: A property owner located within the County, but adjacent to city limits, may
request a Special Exception from Annexation to allow the Council to determine if a property
must be annexed into the City, in order to meet Section 9-6-3C of the Ada County Code
regarding zoning applications in Areas of Impact. Council may consider if a property
requesting certain land use applications within the County must annex into the City or if they
can proceed through the County. The request will be placed on a Council agenda as an action
item. A fee shall be required as determined by Council.

8-1A-11 12: FEES:

In the application of fees for the review of permit applications, the following rules shall apply:

A. Basis for Calculation: For any application involving more than one classification of a petition
or application, the filing fee shall be the sum of the total fee(s) of each individual application(s).

B. Fees Nonrefundable: Once an application has been deemed complete by the administrator and
noticing has occurred, fees to be charged for the various procedures stated above are not

                                                  11
refundable.

C. Land Use Application Fees: Land use application fees shall be set and adopted by resolution
of the city council.

D. The applicant shall be responsible for all other additional review fees associated with the
review of the application(s). This includes but is not limited to City engineer, legal and agencies
having jurisdiction. The applicant shall also be responsible for any outside agency review fees.

E. Applicant shall be responsible for all costs associated with re-noticing of public hearings
when applicants actions result in the meeting being postponed, i.e., failure to properly notice the
site or applicants request for postponement of public hearing.




                                                12
                                           ARTICLE B

                                  APPLICATION CRITERIA

8-1B-1: ANNEXATION, DEANNEXATION, AND ZONING; REZONE:
8-1B-2: CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:
8-1B-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS:
8-1B-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
8-1B-5: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TEXT AMENDMENTS:
8-1B-6: VARIANCE:
8-1B-7: ADMINISTRATIVE DESIGN REVIEW:
8-1B-8: VACATION OF PLATS:

8-1B-1: ANNEXATION AND ZONING; REZONE:

A. Process:
Annexation, Deannexation, and Zoning or Rezone Initiated By Property Owner: The applicant
shall complete a pre-application conference with the administrator prior to submittal of an
application for an annexation and zoning and/or rezone. An application and fees shall be
submitted to the administrator on forms provided by the city.

B. Standards:
1. The subject property shall meet the minimum dimensional standards and/or density standards
of the proper district.
2. The city shall require a development agreement in conjunction with the annexation and
zoning, or rezone, pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6511A, which may include a concept plan.
In addition to other processes permitted by city and state code, exceptions or waivers of
standards, other than use, may be permitted through execution of a development agreement.
A development agreement, building elevations, including front and rear (when backing up to
a collector or arterial street), and concept plan shall be required for any annexation or rezone
to a commercial, mixed-use or residential zone or use, or land which includes steep slope
(land over 25%) or floodway. An application for annexation or rezone shall not be accepted
until any required traffic impact study is submitted and accepted by the appropriate
transportation authority, or a letter from the transportation authority waiving said study is
received by the administrator. A hearing date before the Council shall not be scheduled until any
required traffic impact study has been approved and the transportation authority has issued a staff
report on the development application. The administrator may waive these requirements in
certain circumstances.
3. The termination of a development agreement shall result in the reversal of the official zoning
map amendment approval and applicable development approval for any undeveloped portion of
property subject to the development agreement. The undeveloped property subject to the
development agreement shall be rezoned to the district classification as designated by the
development agreement. When no designation is provided, the property shall revert to its original
zoning or, if the original designation no longer exists, to the closest current equivalent zoning as
determined by the current Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map designation.
4. An amendment or termination of a previously recorded development agreement shall be

                                                13
recorded in the office of the county recorder by the clerk.
5. An approved development agreement must be executed within one hundred eighty (180) days
of the issuance of a final written decision approving the development agreement. A one-time
administrative extension of maximum thirty (30) days may be granted by the zoning
administrator. Additional extensions may be approved by majority vote of the city council.
Failure to execute the development agreement within the required timeframe will result in the
denial of all related applications.
6. Applicant may be responsible to participate in reimbursement costs associated with traffic
studies, in ITD proportionate share and/or additional mitigation contributions that may be
established with transportation authorities, relative to traffic signals, access, or construction
improvements associated with State Highways 16, 20/26 & 44, and/or with funding of police and
fire protection as it relates to residential growth impacts, through mitigation measures as may be
adopted by Council.
7. All development applications shall be subject to a Level of Service (LOS) evaluation from
public agencies including, but not limited to, ITD, ACHD, HD4, Middleton School District,
West Ada School District, Star Fire District and Star Sewer & Water District to determine if all
required findings of fact in Section 8-1B-1C of this Title can be met.

C. Required Findings: The council shall review the application at the public hearing. In order to
grant an annexation and zoning or rezone, the council shall make the following findings:
1. The map amendment complies with the applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan;
2. The map amendment complies with the regulations outlined for the proposed district;
3. The map amendment shall not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare; and
4. The map amendment shall not result in an adverse impact upon the delivery of services by any
political subdivision providing public services within the city.
5. The annexation (as applicable) is in the best interest of city.

D. Exclusion or deannexation/disannexation of land(s). Applications to exclude or deannex or
disannex land from within the incorporated limits of the city shall be processed in the same
manner as applications to annex. The council may choose to grant or deny such applications to
deannex, in its sole discretion, as provided in Idaho Code section 50-225. Decisions to grant or
deny any application for exclusion, deannexation/disannexation do not require that the council
articulate or provide findings justifying its decision.

8-1B-2: CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:

A. Purpose: The purpose of the certificate of zoning compliance (CZC) is to ensure that all
construction, alterations and/or the establishment of a new use complies with all of the
provisions of this title, and any applicable conditions of approval, before any work on the
structure is started and/or the use is established. A certificate of zoning compliance may be
associated with an Administrative Design Review. Residential and commercial building permits
may be subject to review under the CZC process. An associated fee shall be assessed for this
review, as determined by Council.

B. Applicability: These provisions apply to all requests for permits that involve construction,

                                                14
interior/exterior alterations and/or the change in or establishment of a new use.

C. Process: A certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued by the administrator when there is
a demonstration that the development complies with all provisions of this title, and any
applicable conditions of approval.
1. No certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued for any use on a property in violation of
this title or on a property that contains structures or uses in violation of this title.
2. The certificate of zoning compliance shall be invalid:
a. If the certificate was secured in violation of a state or federal law;
b. Upon violation of any regulations of this title on the subject property; or
c. If the conditions of the certificate of zoning compliance have been violated. All further work
shall cease on a project until the violation has been remedied.
3. Certificate of zoning compliances issued in conjunction with a proposed use shall expire if
said use has not commenced within one year of the date of issuance of the certificate of zoning
compliance.
a. Certificate of zoning compliances issued in conjunction with construction or alteration of a
structure shall expire if said construction or alteration has not commenced within one year of the
date of issuance of the certificate of zoning compliance.
b. The certificate of zoning compliance shall require inspections and approvals specified in the
approval of the application. The certificate of zoning compliance shall require sign off by the
Administrator prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
D. Zoning Certificate Not Required: A zoning certificate may not be required, as may be
determined by the administrator, for any of the following specified uses and structures when
such uses are permitted in the district:
1. Lawful accessory uses, not requiring any other permit or license;
2. Lawful signs of a type for which no building permit and/or no sign permit are required.
3. Application is for a Conditional Use Permit.

E. Temporary Uses: A zoning certificate shall be required for temporary buildings, temporary
display and retail sale of merchandise, model homes, and construction project trailers, activities,
and/or uses incidental to the construction of a building or group of buildings on the same or
adjacent premises. This shall include staging areas for infrastructure improvements. A zoning
certificate shall also be required for seasonal uses (e.g., fireworks stands, Christmas tree lots,
fruit and vegetable stands marketing locally grown produce). Other uses which clearly are not
associated with a holiday, the growing season, or a construction project may be considered for
approval by the administrator. The timeframe for approval shall be determined by the
administrator based on the specific use.

F. Zoning Certificate Prohibited: No zoning certificate shall be issued, granted or approved for
single-family residential use, multi-family residential use, childcare facility, school,
manufactured home community or mobile home park unless all irrigation ditches, laterals and
canals crossing, intersecting and lying adjacent, or contiguous to, such uses are covered or
fenced. Upon application, the council may waive this restriction in whole or in part if it is found
that covering or fencing will not serve the public purpose in an individual case.
1. The proposed use shall not allow for placement of any structure, vehicle, sign, etc., within a
vision triangle, required setback, required parking stall (except as permitted for temporary,

                                                15
outdoor display sale of merchandise), service drive area, dedicated trash dumpster location,
sidewalk, or any other position on a lot which may interfere with vehicular or pedestrian
circulation, or the normal functions of other uses on the property, or be potentially hazardous to
the public.
2. The proposed use must be in conformance with the zoning district which it is proposed to be
located in (e.g., retail sales in a commercial zone).
3. The approval shall contain language stating that the certificate does not exempt the applicant
from having to comply with regulations administered and enforced by other city, state, and
federal agencies.
4. Uses which may not be considered for temporary approval.
5. No permit, except in the case of seasonal uses or uses incidental to construction, shall be
issued for structures or uses which are intended to be placed upon unimproved property.
6. Seasonal uses shall:
a. Obtain from the property owner a signed and notarized affidavit acknowledging that the
applicant has the authority to use the property.
b. Require that the property owner will be accountable for any debris or refuse left on the
property more than three (3) days after the applicant leaves the premises with the business and
shall be responsible to pay any additional cleanup costs to the city.
c. Moreover, an applicant who fails to clean the lot when the operation concludes shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor as defined by Idaho Code section 18-113 (as amended).
d. Revocation: Upon violation of any of the conditions or terms of the zoning certificates issued
pursuant to this chapter, the administrator may cause the certification to be revoked. The
administrator shall be authorized to revoke any zoning certificates issued by the city.
e. Zoning Certificate, Lapse: A zoning certificate shall lapse and become void whenever the
building permit or license either lapses or is revoked, or whenever the use of occupancy specified
has ceased to exist or has been suspended for one hundred eighty (180) calendar days or longer.
f. Time Extension: The administrator may grant a one-time extension not to exceed sixty (60)
days.

8-1B-3: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENTS:

A. Process:
1. Comprehensive Plan Amendment Initiated by The City: The city council may propose
amendments to the comprehensive plan following notice and public hearing procedures in
section 67-6509 of the Idaho Code.
2. Comprehensive Plan Amendment Initiated by A Property Owner: The applicant shall
complete a preapplication conference with the administrator prior to submittal of an application
for a comprehensive plan amendment. An application and fees shall be submitted to the
administrator on application forms provided by the city.
3. Public Hearing: The city council shall conduct at least one public hearing in accordance with
this chapter and in accordance with the procedures in section 67-6509 of the Idaho Code.

B. Required Findings: The council shall review the application at the public hearing. In order to
adopt a new comprehensive plan or grant an amendment to the existing comprehensive plan, the
council shall make the following findings:
1. The proposed amendment is consistent with the other elements of the comprehensive plan.

                                               16
2. The proposed amendment provides an improved guide to future growth and development of
the city.
3. The proposed amendment is internally consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the
comprehensive plan and the comprehensive plan future land use map.
4. The proposed amendment is consistent with this unified development code.
5. The proposed amendment is in the best interest of the city of Star.
6. The proposed amendment includes a justification letter for the amendment addressing the
following criteria and the Council finds that the amendment is in compliance with the stated
criteria:
a.       A specific description of the change being requested.
b.       Specific information on any property(s) involved.
c.       A description of the condition or situation which warrants a change being made in the
plan.
e.       A detailed list of all applicable comprehensive plan goals, policies, and objectives that
the proposed change would help implement or policies that must also be amended as part of the
proposed change.
f.       A proposed development plan for any land involved.
h.       An analysis showing the estimated impact that the proposed change is expected to have
on existing and planned infrastructure.
i.       If the amendment will impact more individuals than the applicant submitting the
application a detailed description of the efforts made to inform other parties potentially impacted
by the change of the application is to be provided.
j.       Any other data and information required by the city for their evaluation of the request.

8-1B-4: CONDITIONAL USES:

A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures that allow for a particular use
on a specific property subject to specific terms and conditions of approval.

B. Applicability: The provisions of this section apply to all uses identified as conditional use within
this title. In addition to other processes permitted by city and state code, exceptions or waivers
of standards, other than use, may be permitted through issuance of a conditional use permit,
development agreement or PUD, upon approval by Council.

C. Process:
1. The applicant shall complete a pre-application conference with the administrator prior to
submittal of an application for a conditional use.
2. A neighborhood meeting shall be held by the applicant pursuant to Section 8-1A-6C of this
title.
3. An application and appropriate application fees shall be submitted to the City on forms
provided by the city.
4. Prior to issuing the conditional use permit, the administrator may require additional
information, including studies, concerning the social, economic, fiscal or environmental effects
of the proposed conditional use. Traffic studies may be required by the transportation authority
prior to acceptance of an application.
D. Standards: In approving any conditional use, the city council may prescribe appropriate

                                                  17
conditions, bonds and safeguards in conformity with this title that:
1. Minimize adverse impact of the use on other property.
2. Control the sequence and timing of the use.
3. Control the duration of the use.
4. Assure that the use and the property in which the use is located is maintained properly.
5. Designate the location and nature of the use and the property development.
6. Require the provision for on site or off-site public facilities or services.
7. Require more restrictive standards than those generally required in this title.
8. Require mitigation of adverse impacts of the proposed development upon service delivery by
any political subdivision, including school districts, that provides services within the city.

E. Findings: The council shall base its determination on the conditional use permit request upon
the following:
1. That the site is large enough to accommodate the proposed use and meet all the dimensional
and development regulations in the district in which the use is located.
2. That the proposed use shall meet the intent of the Star comprehensive plan and be in
compliance with the requirements of this title.
3. That the design, construction, operation and maintenance will be compatible with other uses in
the general neighborhood and with the existing or intended character of the general vicinity.
4. That the proposed use, if it complies with all conditions of the approval imposed, will not
adversely affect other property in the vicinity.
5. That the proposed use will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services such
as highways, streets, schools, parks, police and fire protection, drainage structures, refuse
disposal, water, and sewer.
6. That the proposed use will not create excessive additional costs for public facilities and
services and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of the community.
7. That the proposed use will not involve activities or processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or the general welfare by
reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors.
8. That the proposed use will not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic or
historic feature considered to be of major importance as determined by the City.

F. Time Limitations and Extensions:
1. A conditional use permit, upon council approval, shall be valid for a maximum period of
twenty-four (24) months unless otherwise approved by the City Council. During this time, the
applicant shall commence the use as permitted in accord with the conditions of approval, satisfy
the requirements set forth in the conditions of approval, and acquire building permits and
commence construction of permanent footings or structures on or in the ground. Once all
requirements are satisfied, permits are acquired and the use is commenced, the conditional use
permit will become permanent unless otherwise revoked by the city council.
2. A conditional use permit that also requires platting: The final plat must be recorded within this
twenty-four (24) month period.
a. For projects with multiple phases, the twenty-four (24) month deadline shall apply to the first
phase. In the event that the development is made in successive contiguous segments or multiple
phases, such phases shall be constructed within successive intervals of one year from the original
date of approval. If the successive phases are not submitted within the one-year interval, the

                                                18
conditional use approval of the future phases shall be null and void.
3. Time Extension. Upon written request and filed by the applicant prior to the termination of the
period in accord with this subsection F, the administrator may authorize a single, administrative
time extension to commence the use not to exceed one (1), twelve (12) month period. The
administrator may require the conditional use comply with the current provisions of this chapter.
Additional requests must be approved by the council.
a. Council approval of requests for time extension for an approved conditional use shall be
determined by the city council at a public hearing and will not be granted if any of the following
conditions exist:
(1) Significant amendments to the comprehensive plan or this unified development code have
been adopted that change the basis under which the conditional use permit was granted.
(2) Significant changes in land use have occurred in the area that will impact or be impacted by
the project.
(3) Hazardous conditions have developed or have been discovered that will impact the project.
4. Community facilities and/or services are no longer adequate to serve the project.
a. The city council may place additional requirements, modify the previous approval or deny the
request for time extension.
b. No more than one-time extension may be granted to a single conditional use.

G. Transfers and Modifications:
1. Conditional use permits are an entitlement to the specific property on which the approval was
granted and upon property sale the entitlement transfers to the new owner(s) without further
application or approval, provided, however, the new owner(s) shall be bound by the same
conditions of approval as the original permit holder(s). This is for a specific use and may not be
used for other applications.
2. A conditional use permit is not transferable from one property to another.
3. All requested modifications to an approved conditional use shall be considered by the city
council at a public hearing. The city council may modify the conditions, limitations and/or scope
of the permit.

H. Revocation:
1. A conditional use permit may be revoked or modified by the city council, upon notice and
public hearing, for breach or violation of any condition of approval or limitation of the permit.
2. If the city council decides to revoke a conditional use permit, either on its own action or upon
complaint to the city council, the administrator shall notify the permit holder of its intention to
revoke the conditional use permit and provide the permit holder with the opportunity to contest
the revocation.
3. Fifteen (15) days' prior notice of the hearing shall be given to the permit holder and all
property owners of record (to be obtained from the County Assessor’s office) within the radius
required in subsection 8-1A-4B of this article.
4. The council shall make findings of fact and conclusions of law supporting its decision to
revoke the conditional use permit. If the council decides not to revoke the conditional use permit,
no findings of fact and conclusions of law shall be made.
5. An affected person may appeal the decision of the city council under the administrative
procedure act of the state of Idaho, Idaho Code title 67, chapter 52.


                                                19
8-1B-5: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE TEXT AMENDMENTS:

A. Unified Development Code Amendment Initiated by A Property Owner: The applicant shall
complete a pre-application conference with the administrator prior to submittal of an application
for a unified development code text amendment. An application and fees shall be submitted to
the administrator on forms provided by the city.

B. Unified Development Code Amendment Initiated by the City: The city may initiate a code
amendment with public notice as required herein.

C. Required Findings: In order to grant a text amendment to this unified development code, the
council shall review the proposed text amendment at a public hearing and make the following
findings:
1. The text amendment complies with the applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan;
2. The text amendment shall not be materially detrimental to the public health, safety, and
welfare; and
3. The text amendment shall not result in an adverse impact upon the delivery of services by any
political subdivision providing public services within the city including.

8-1B-6: VARIANCE:

A. Authority to Grant Variances: The council may authorize, in specific cases, such variance
from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary
hardship. No nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures or buildings in the same district
and no permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other districts shall be
considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be granted on the grounds of
convenience or profit, but only where strict application of the provisions of this title would result
in unnecessary, non-financial hardship.

B. Process:
1. The applicant shall complete a pre-application conference with the administrator prior to
submittal of an application for a variance.
2. A neighborhood meeting shall be held by the applicant pursuant to Section 8-1A-6C of this
title.
3. An application and fees shall be submitted to the administrator on forms provided by the city.

C. Standards: The variance shall comply with Idaho Code section 67-6516. A variance may be
considered as a waiver of development standards when associated with a conditional use permit,
development agreement or planned unit development.

D. Required Findings: In order to grant a variance, the council shall review the application at a
public hearing and use its discretion to make the following findings:
1. The variance does not grant a right or special privilege that is not otherwise allowed in the
district;
2. The variance relieves an undue hardship because of characteristics of the site, which must be

                                                 20
other than financial in nature; and
3. The variance is not detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare.

8-1B-7: ADMINISTRATIVE DESIGN REVIEW:

A.     Purpose.
       1. To produce attractive developments with unique character and quality architectural
       design.
       2. To minimize the impact of the scale, bulk and color of large structures on
       surrounding properties.
       3. To encourage high quality building design that employs the use of good design
       principles and features quality, durable materials.
       4. To protect the safety and convenience of pedestrian access within developments and
       to build attractive pedestrian amenities.
       5. To provide greater attention to the design and location of structures in relationship to
       the surrounding street.
       6. To locate noise generating activities away from any adjacent residential uses.
       7. To create attractive and quality designed structures reflecting the unique character of
       Star along the city's entryway corridors.
       8. To promote quality growth patterns that support economic development and the
       efficient use of resources.
       9. To guide the design of structures, not control the type, intensity or density of the use.

B. Applicability.

       1. Administrative design review shall only be required for all new commercial,
       industrial, institutional, public or quasi-public development that is subject to
       conditional use, certificate of zoning compliance and/or building permit approval,
       except developments meeting one (1) or more of the following standards shall be
       exempt:

       a. The structure and/or addition is fully screened from public view from all abutting
       property lines;

       b. The structure and/or addition is less than one hundred twenty (120) square feet in
       area and is not visible from a public street, private street, or abutting residence; and/or

       c. No exterior improvements are proposed, including changes in use.



                                                 21
       2. Administrative design review shall be required for all new attached residential
       structures containing two (2) or more dwelling units or multi-family dwellings.
       Administrative design review shall not apply to the construction, addition, removal, or
       modification of detached single-family homes and/or secondary accessory dwellings
       unless required as part of a development agreement.

       3. Unless otherwise waived by the Administrator, administrative design review shall be
       required for all exterior building alterations, including, but not limited to: the addition,
       removal, or modification of architectural elements, such as doors, windows, awnings,
       and arcades; building remodels where all or a portion of a structure is modified,
       including entrances, facades, rooflines, and building expansions; a change in exterior
       materials and/or color scheme; or any other alteration that modifies the exterior
       appearance of the building, approved conditions, and/or the requirements in this title
       and/or the " Architectural Overlay District Guidelines ".

       4. Administrative design review shall be required for all site alterations, including, but
       not limited to. the addition, removal, or modification of site improvements and/or
       features, such as access, parking, and landscaping, or any other alteration that modifies
       the site, approved conditions, and/or the requirements in this title and/or the
       "Architectural Overlay District Guidelines".

       5. Administrative design review shall not apply to interior tenant improvements.

C. Process.

       1.For projects requiring only certificate of zoning compliance approval, as determined
       by the administrator and/or further defined in this Title, a design review application
       shall not be required.

       2. An application and fees, in accord with article A, "General Provisions", of this
       chapter, shall be submitted to the administrator on forms provided by the Planning
       Department.

       3. The administrator shall apply the standards listed in this title and the guidelines as set
       forth in the " Architectural Overlay District Guidelines " to review the administrative
       design review request.

       4. The administrative design review approval shall be exercised with the approval
       period of the underlying permit, or the approval shall expire. For example, if the
       underlying permit is a conditional use permit, the design review approval will expire
       two (2) years after approval.

D. Required findings. In order to grant approval for an administrative design review, the
administrator shall determine that the proposed structural and/or site designs conform to the
standards and meet or exceed the intent of the " Architectural Overlay District Guidelines ".


                                                22
E. The administrator shall meet with a design review committee, including one (1) member of
the City Council and the Mayor to review the application and present proposed findings and
conditions prior to issuing approval of the application. The committee may also include
members of the professional community, including building architects, civil engineers, builders
and landscape architects.

F. The applicant may appeal the decision of the administrator and committee to the City
Council per Section 8-1A-5 of this title.

8-1B-8: VACATIONS OF PLATS:

A. Vacation of a plat or any part thereof. A vacation of any portion of a plat shall comply with
Idaho Code section 50-1306A.

B. A vacation of utility easements, including but not limited to, gas, sewer, water, telephone,
cable television, power, drainage, and slope purpose, shall be requested to the Administrator.

       1. Process:
       a. A request for vacation shall be brought before City Council but shall not be a public
       hearing.
       b. Vacation of these easements shall occur upon the recording of the new or amended
       plat.
       c. All affected easement holders shall be notified by the applicant by certified mail,
       return receipt requested, of the proposed vacation and have agreed to the same in
       writing.




                                                23
                           ARTICLE C. SURETY AGREEMENTS

8-1C-1: PROCESS:
8-1C-2: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION:

8-1C-1: PROCESS:

A. The city may withhold building, electrical or plumbing permits, or certificates of occupancy
on the lots or land being developed or subdivided, or the structures constructed thereon, if the
improvements required under this title have not been constructed or installed, or if such
improvements are not functioning properly.

B. All improvements related to public life, safety and health shall be completed prior to
occupancy of the structures. Those improvements include, but may not be limited to, water,
sewer, power facilities, street paving, emergency services, streetlights, parking lot paving and
striping.

C. In the event that an applicant and/or owner cannot complete the nonlife, non-safety and non-
health improvements, such as landscaping, pressurized irrigation, streetlights, fencing, and other
site amenities, within the time specified in the final plat approval or prior to occupancy, a surety
agreement may be approved in accord with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
        1. For landscaping, including irrigation pumps and other landscaping related materials,
            the applicant shall provide the City with copies of paid receipts indicating purchase
            and order of said equipment and materials, along with a schedule date for delivery
            and installation. Landscaping and pressurized irrigation shall be installed as soon as
            allowed by weather or other relevant conditions, but shall not extend more than
            twelve (12) months from the date of recordation of final plat. Building permits may
            be delayed by the building department, or City signatures on future final plat phases
            may be withheld if improvements are not completed in the timeframe. Administrator
            may authorize an additional time extension.
        2. Streetlights must be installed prior to the first building permit being issued for the
            development and shall be energized prior to occupancy of the first structure. The
            administrator may approve the use of temporary streetlights or other acceptable
            options prior to building permit issuance, provided permanent streetlights are
            installed and energized prior to occupancy of first structure, on a case-by-case basis.
        3. For fencing or other site amenities, the applicant shall provide the City with copies of
            paid receipts indicating purchase and order of said amenities, along with a schedule
            date for delivery and installation.
        4. For all requests, a detailed schedule of work to be completed shall be provided.
            Unless otherwise stated, all work shall be completed, and surety release requested
            within one (1) year of acceptance by the City. A one-time administrative extension of
            maximum thirty (30) days may be granted by the zoning administrator. Additional
            extensions may be approved by majority vote of the city council.

                                                 24
       5. A private street may be approved for a surety agreement prior to final plat approval
          provided that the street is constructed and receives inspection approval from the City
          Engineer and Fire District prior to issuance of any building permit.
       6. An applicant may bond for ACHD/HD4/ITD roadway improvements or a private
          street in order to obtain final plat signature. Building permits shall not be issued until
          all roadway improvements are completed and signed off by the Agency.

D. The amount of surety called for shall be equal to not less than one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the cost of completing the required improvements. The estimated cost for all items,
including labor, shall be provided by the applicant, and reviewed and approved by the city
engineer. The city engineer may require increased costs and/or additional bids as deemed
necessary and may reject unbalanced bids.

E. The surety shall be in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit, performance bond, or a cash
deposit. In all cases the surety shall be drawn solely in favor of, and payable to, the order of the
city of Star, in accord with the regulations contained in the surety agreement by and between the
guarantor and the city of Star.

F. Where a surety is accepted by the city and deposited as provided by this article, the city may
release temporary occupancy of a structure or structures. The term of the temporary occupancy
shall be determined by the city engineer and/or administrator. The term shall not exceed ninety
(90) days in length. A one-time administrative extension of maximum thirty (30) days may be
granted by the zoning administrator. Additional extensions may be approved by majority vote of
the city council.

G. Where a surety is accepted by the city and deposited as provided by this article, the surety
shall be released subject to the following regulations:
1. The owner shall submit a written request to the city to return the surety. The request shall
include the following documents:
a. A statement from the owner that the required improvements are complete.
b. Two (2) complete sets of full-size prints of the as built plans and specifications for all
improvements.
2. The city engineer, and administrator shall verify and certify that the required improvements, as
detailed in the surety agreement, have been installed. The as-built plans shall be reviewed and
approved by the city engineer.
3. Upon certification of the city engineer and the administrator, the city shall release the sureties
heretofore deposited in the manner and to the extent as provided for in the surety agreement in
accord with the regulations of this article.

H. Fees for the surety agreement process shall be set and adopted by resolution of the city
council.

8-1C-3: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLETE CONSTRUCTION:

In the event an applicant and/or owner shall, in any case, fail to complete the public
improvements in the time period required, the city council may proceed to have such work

                                                 25
completed and recover the city's costs by any legal means available, including pursuing the
remedies provided by the financial guarantees.

                                           ARTICLE D

                             IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS

8-1D-1: PURPOSE:
8-1D-2: APPLICABILITY:
8-1D-3: INTERPRETATION:
8-1D-4: ERRORS IN LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS OF PROPERTY:
8-1D-5: REFERENCES:
8-1D-6: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:
8-1D-7: SAVING CLAUSE:
8-1D-8: VIOLATIONS:
8-1D-9: CODE ENFORCEMENT:
8-1D-10: CITY ABATEMENT OPTION AND ASSOCIATED CHARGES:
8-1D-11: PENALTIES:

8-1D-1: PURPOSE:

A. Carry out the policies of the comprehensive plan by classifying and regulating the uses of
property and structures within the incorporated areas of the city of Star;

B. Establish districts within the city of Star in accord with the adopted comprehensive plan in
conformance with Idaho Code section 67-6511;

C. Provide standards for the orderly growth and development of the city of Star. As required by
Idaho Code section 67-6511, such standards include, but are not limited to, those regulating:
1. The height, number of stories, size, design, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or
location of structures.
2. Size, minimum lot dimensions, landscape buffers, size of required yards, and density of
residential properties.
3. The use of structures and property;

D. Ensure the most appropriate use of properties;

E. Protect property rights and enhance property values;

F. Provide a method of administration and prescribe penalties for the violations of regulations
hereafter described as authorized by the constitution and laws of the state of Idaho; and

G. Protect and promote health, safety and the general welfare of the public.

8-1D-2: APPLICABILITY:


                                                 26
A. No person, company, or public agency shall construct, alter, move, or change the use of a
structure or undertake any development unless:
1. The proposed use, structure, or division of property complies with this title.
2. Any required approval is first obtained as provided by chapter 1, "Administration", of this
title, and any applicable conditions of approval are met.

B. Nothing in this title shall eliminate the need for obtaining any other required permits,
including, but not limited to, building permits, plumbing, electrical, or mechanical permits,
grading permits, or any permit, approval, or entitlement required by other titles of this code,
other political subdivisions of the state of Idaho, agencies of the state of Idaho, or federal
agencies.

C. All properties in the Star city corporate limits shall comply with the regulations of this title
unless otherwise preempted by federal, state or municipal law.

D. The prosecution of violations that occurred under previous land use regulations and that
remain a violation under this title shall continue until resolved.

8-1D-3: INTERPRETATION:

A. Language:
1. Terminology: When used in this title, all words used in the present tense shall include the
future; words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular, unless the natural construction of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word "shall" is
mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive.
2. Number Of Days: See section 8-1A-7 of this title.
3. Minimum Requirements: When interpreting and applying the regulations of this title, all
regulations shall be considered to be minimum requirements, unless stated otherwise. Proposed
uses shall comply with all applicable regulations and standards unless specifically exempt
elsewhere in this title.
4. Defined Terms: Terms defined within this title shall have their defined meaning when used
elsewhere in this title. For the purpose of readability and clarity, such terms are not shown in
initial caps.
5. Section Headings: Section headings or captions are for reference purposes only and shall not
be used in the interpretation of this title.
6. References: All references to state or federal laws and/or regulations shall refer to such laws
and/or regulations as they may be amended over time.

B. Measurements:
1. Structure height shall be measured in accord with the Star city building code as set forth in
title 7 of this code.
2. Linear distance shall be measured in a horizontal line; it shall not be measured along an
inclined surface or line. For uses that have a separation standard, the distance shall be measured
from the nearest customer entrance of the proposed use to the nearest property line of the
specified use. The measurement is to be conducted in a radial fashion by the specified number of
feet (e.g., 300 feet, 1,000 feet).

                                                  27
C. District Boundaries: Where uncertainty exists about the location of any district boundary
shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall be used to resolve the uncertainty:
1. Where a district boundary approximately follows a property line, such property line shall be
construed as the district boundary.
2. Where a district boundary approximately follows a street, alley, or railroad line, such street,
alley, centerline, or the extension of such line shall be construed as the district boundary.
3. Where a district boundary approximately follows a watercourse, the centerline of the
watercourse shall be construed to be such boundary. In the event of a change in the watercourse
shoreline, the boundary shall be construed as moving with the actual shoreline.
4. Where a district boundary does not obviously coincide with any of the above lines (property;
street, alley, or railroad line; watercourse), or where it is not designated by dimensions, it shall be
deemed to be located along the nearest section, quarter section, or sixteenth section line.

D. Conflicting Regulations:
1. In case of conflict between the text and the maps of this title, the text shall prevail.
2. If conflicts occur between different regulations of this title, or between this title and other
regulations of this code, the most restrictive regulation shall apply.
3. It is not intended that this title interfere with, abrogate, or annul any easements, covenants, or
other agreements between parties; however, where this title imposes a greater restriction upon
the use of structures or premises or upon the height of structures, or requires larger space than is
imposed or required by ordinances, rules or regulations, or by easements, covenants, or
agreements, the regulations of this title shall govern.

E. Undesignated Uses: If a proposed use of property is not specifically listed in chapter 3,
"District Regulations", of this title the use shall be prohibited, except as follows: the
administrator may determine that a proposed use not listed in chapter 3, "District Regulations",
of this title is equivalent to a principal permitted or conditional use. In making the determination,
the administrator shall consider the following:
1. The impacts on public services and activities associated with the proposed use are
substantially similar to those of one or more of the uses listed in the applicable base districts as
allowed;
2. The proposed use shall not involve a higher level of activity or density than one or more of the
uses listed in the applicable base districts as allowed;
3. The proposed use is consistent with the purpose of the district in which the use is proposed to
be located; and
4. The proposed use is in substantial conformance with goals and objectives of the
comprehensive plan.

8-1D-4: ERRORS IN LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS OF PROPERTY:

Where a property has not been zoned because of an error in a legal description, the following
shall apply:

A. If the error is caused by the city, the error shall be corrected and duly processed by the city as
soon as the error is discovered.

                                                  28
B. If the error is caused by the applicant and/or owner, the applicant shall provide a new legal
description and will be responsible for all additional costs resulting from the error.
8-1D-5: REFERENCES:

References in this title to other ordinances or codes of the city of Star and statutes of the state of
Idaho are provided solely for the coordination of this title with such other ordinances and
statutes. Any amendments to cited codes that are adopted subsequent to the adoption of this title
shall be applicable to this title.

8-1D-6: PRESERVATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY RIGHTS:

A. This title shall be interpreted to equally protect citizens from the undue encroachment on their
private property by their neighbors' use of their private property and equally protect each
citizen's right to use of their property without creating undue burden upon their neighbors.

B. In the administration of this title, every person shall be secure in their premises, and no
employee of the city shall enter upon, investigate, or search any of the premises of any citizen
without the consent of such citizen or order issued by a court of proper jurisdiction. For consent
of an applicant with an active application with the City, please refer to Section 8-1A-2A (3).

C. Every citizen of Star city shall have the right to appear in person or be represented by their
agent before the council in the proper order of business to appeal a decision pursuant to the
procedures contained in chapter 1, "Administration", of this title.

D. In the enforcement of this title, it shall be deemed to apply equally to each citizen and each
property in similar circumstances and shall not be enforced to discriminate between one
individual and/or another individual or other group as compared to all others.

8-1D-7: SAVING CLAUSE:

Should any section, clause, or regulation of this title be declared by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not affect the validity of this title as a whole, or any part
thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid, each section, clause, or regulation hereof
being declared severable.

8-1D-8: VIOLATIONS:

A. It is a violation of this unified development code for any person to initiate or maintain or
cause to be initiated or maintained the use of any structure, land or real property within the city
of Star without first obtaining proper permits or authorizations required for the use by this title.

B. It is a violation of this unified development code for any person to use, construct, locate,
demolish or cause to be used, constructed, located, or demolished any structure, land or property
within the city of Star in any manner that is not permitted by the terms of any permit or
authorization issued pursuant to this title or previous codes.

                                                   29
C. It is a violation of this unified development code for any person to not comply with specific
conditions of approval within any city adopted Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law as
stated in, but not limited to, a conditional use permit, preliminary plat, final plat, or planned
development, or within an approved administrative approval including, but not limited to
certificate of zoning compliance, temporary use, design review, sign permit or home occupation,
as set forth in this title.

D. It is a violation of this unified development code to misrepresent any material fact in any
application, plans or other information submitted to obtain any land use authorization as set forth
in this title.

E. It is a violation of this unified development code for anyone to fail to comply with the
requirements of the development code, as set out in the specific sections of this title.

F. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this unified development code for any person to use,
construct, locate, initiate, alter or maintain any structure, land or real property, or cause any
structure, land or real property to be used, constructed, located, initiated, altered or maintained in
any manner which violates, omits, or fails to conform to any applicable procedure, standard, or
requirement established by this title for the zoning district in which such structure, land, or real
property is located.

G. See 8-1D-11 Penalties.

8-1D-9: CODE ENFORCEMENT:

A. Duty to Enforce: It shall be the duty of the administrator to interpret this title.
1. It shall be the duty of the administrator and/or designee to enforce the regulations of this title.
The administrator or designee may call upon the services of the police, fire, parks or other
appropriate city or other regulatory agencies or service provider including Idaho Transportation
Department (ITD), Ada County Highway District (ACHD), Canyon Highway District #4
(CHD4) irrigation districts or sewer and water districts, Central District Health Department,
Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ), etc., to assist in enforcement.
2. It is the intent of this title to place the obligation of complying with its requirements upon the
owner, occupier or other person responsible for the condition of the land and buildings within the
scope of this title.

B. Investigation:
1. The administrator or designee shall investigate any structure or use which he or she reasonably
believes does not comply with the standards and requirements of this title.
2. If, after investigation, it is determined that the standards or requirements of this title have been
violated, the administrator or designee shall serve a notice of violation upon the owner, tenant or
other person responsible for the condition. The notice of violation shall state separately each
standard or requirement violated; shall state what corrective action, if any, is necessary to
comply with the standards or requirements; and shall set a reasonable time for compliance. The
notice shall state that any further violation may result in criminal prosecution and/or civil

                                                  30
penalties.

3. The notice shall be served upon the owner, tenant or other person responsible for the condition
by personal service, registered mail, or certified mail with return receipt requested addressed to
the last known address of such person. If, after a time and effort is made to serve or mail notice
without success, then notice may be made by publication in the newspaper of record for the city
of Star. The administrator or designee will record all efforts made to effect service in person or
by mail as part of their investigative report.

C. Extension of Compliance Date:
1. The administrator or designee may grant a reasonable extension of time for compliance with
any notice or order, whether pending or final, upon finding that substantial progress toward
compliance has been made and that the public will not be adversely affected by the extension.
Such extension of time shall not exceed ninety (90) days.
2. An extension of time may be revoked by the administrator if it is shown that any of the
following are true:
a. The conditions at the time the extension was granted have changed.
b. The administrator or designee determines that a party is not performing corrective actions as
agreed.

8-1D-10: CITY ABATEMENT OPTION AND ASSOCIATED CHARGES:

Nuisances which remain unabated after notice, may, at the option of the city, be removed, abated
or destroyed by the city or its agents, after the following steps have been taken:

A. Second Notice: If after fifteen (15) calendar days from the date a written notice is personally
delivered to the property owner, or mailed to the property owner's address as shown in current
official county assessor records, no abatement of the nuisance has occurred, the administrator or
designee shall provide a second fifteen (15) day notice to be delivered to the property owner by
certified mail or personal service, which shall indicate the following:
1. That if the property owner fails to abate the nuisance, the city shall take steps to abate the
same.
2. That if the city abates the nuisance, all costs and expenses of abatement shall be billed and
assessed against the property owner, and if unpaid, shall become collectable as a special
assessment with property taxes.
3. That the property owner has a right to appear before the city council to show cause as to why
he or she should not be forced to abate or pay for abatement of the nuisance; furthermore, that if
the property owner desires such a hearing, a request for hearing, in writing, shall be given to the
city administrator or designee prior to expiration of the fifteen (15) day notice, and that
abatement by the city will proceed if the property owner has not exercised this option to request
a hearing.
4. If said certified notice is returned as undeliverable, or is unclaimed by the property owner,
nothing shall preclude the city from exercising its abatement option as specified herein.

B. Authorization to Remove: When the fifteen (15) day notice has expired without a request for
hearing, the administrator or designee is authorized to remove, abate or destroy the nuisance. The

                                                31
administrator is authorized to utilize city personnel to abate the nuisance or to contact the mayor
in regard to contracting for an outside party to abate the nuisance.

C. Statement of Charges Mailed: If the city abates any nuisance under the provisions of this
section, a statement of charges billed to the property owner shall be mailed or personally
delivered to the property owner.

D. Authority to Employ Labor: The mayor, with approval of the city council, is hereby given the
power and authority to employ such labor as is necessary to carry out the provisions of this
chapter.

E. Special Assessment: If payment is not received from the property owner within thirty (30)
days, the amount billed shall, in accordance with state law, be assessed as a special assessment
collectible against the subject property as other state, county and municipal taxes.

F. Hearing: If the property owner requests a hearing to show cause before the city council, the
hearing shall, if feasible, be placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled city council
meeting. The decision of the city council shall be final. A ten (10) day period shall be given to
the property owner after the council decision so that the property owner shall have an additional
opportunity to abate the nuisance or to pursue any legal remedies or defenses at the district court
level.

8-1D-11: PENALTIES:

Any person owning or occupying any lots, lands or premises within such incorporated limits of
the city who shall fail, refuse or neglect to continuously keep abated, cut down, obliterated or
destroyed all such harmful, unsightly and injurious weeds and noxious weeds, grasses and
growth above named in the manner prescribed, and according to the provisions of this section of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every day any such person shall
fail, refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions of this chapter it shall be deemed a separate
and distinct offense against the provisions of this chapter and each such separate offenses shall
be punishable as provided in this code.

A. A violation of the provisions of this title is declared a misdemeanor. Any person violating or
failing to comply with any of the provisions of this title shall be subject to criminal prosecution
and upon conviction shall be fined as defined in section 1-4-1, "General Penalty", of this code.
Each day of noncompliance with any of the provisions of this title shall constitute a separate
offense.

B. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the city may civilly prosecute
any violation of this code and seek all available remedies that may include, but are not limited to,
abatement of the noncompliant conditions, revocation of existing permits for noncompliance,
civil damages for enforcement, or any other remedy as allowed by law.

C. The city may file a lien upon any real property owned by convicted person if they fail to
comply with the penalty as set forth in this section.

                                                 32
                                           ARTICLE E

                                         DEFINITIONS

8-1E-1: TERMS DEFINED:
8-1E-2: FIGURES – SETBACKS, REQUIRED YARDS AND PROPERTY TYPE:

8-1E-1: TERMS DEFINED:

As used in this title, each of the terms defined shall have the meaning given in this section unless
a different meaning is clearly required by the content. Where terms are not defined, they shall
have their ordinary accepted meanings within the context with which they are used. The most
current version of the "Merriam-Webster's Unabridged Dictionary of The English Language"
shall be considered as providing accepted meanings.

ABANDONED: To cease or discontinue a use or activity for twelve (12) months without
apparent intent to resume.

ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached structure that is incidental and subordinate to the
principal structure and is located upon the same property. The structure shall not receive a
building permit prior to the primary structure being built and will not be permitted without a
primary structure. The term accessory structure shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: private garage, storage structure, secondary accessory dwelling unit, workshop, pool
house, and/or greenhouse. New accessory structures are not allowed in the CBD district, unless
approved by the administrator or council as part of an application. A maximum of two (2)
accessory structures shall be allowed on any residential parcel or lot, unless approved by Council
through a conditional use permit. Allowed accessory structures shall require certificate of zoning
compliance, building permit, and shall comply with all requirements of the applicable zoning
district. Accessory structures less than 200 sq ft does not need a building permit, but shall require
a zoning compliance review, and should have a 5’ minimum setback from any property line.

ACCESSORY USE: A use that is incidental and subordinate to the principal use and is
conducted upon the same property.

ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the Star city planning and zoning department or an
authorized representative, including their staff. Also referred to as the zoning administrator.

ADULT BUSINESS/ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Modeling, posing, exhibition, display or
exposure of any type whether through book, pictures, electronic media, film, displays, live
performance, dance or modeling that has as its dominant theme, or is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on any one or more of the following: a) any actual or simulated
specified sexual activities; b) exposure of male or female anatomical areas; c) the removal of
articles of clothing; d) appearing nude or seminude; and/or e) the use of the terms "X", "XX",

                                                 33
"XXX" or any series of the letter "X", "erotic", "adult entertainment", "sex" or "nude".

AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY, FISHING: Tilling of soil, aquaculture, raising crops, livestock,
farming, dairying and animal husbandry including all uses customarily accessory and incidental
thereto; but excluding animal slaughterhouses, fertilizer works, bone yards and commercial
feedlots. Establishments primarily engaged in growing crops, raising animals, harvesting timber,
and harvesting fish and other animals from a farm, ranch, or their natural habitats.

AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE: Agricultural structure means any building or structure which
is used solely for farming or ranching uses. The term "agricultural structure" includes, but is not
limited to, barns, wind breaks, or silos. An agricultural structure shall not be used as an accessory
structure, and shall not store personal items other than that for agricultural purposes. The
structure must be located on a single parcel of land of more than five (5) acres. A zoning
certification shall be required for this use.

ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structures, such as bearing walls,
columns, beams, and girders.

ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE: An administrative determination that a specific application
achieves or exceeds specific requirements as set forth in this title. Consideration of alternative
compliance is limited in circumstances as identified in this title.

ANIMAL CARE FACILITY: Any parcel of land or lot, structure, or portion thereof, that is
designed or used for the boarding, care, grooming, diagnosis or treatment of animals, including,
but not limited to, sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those that are in need of medical or
surgical attention. The term animal care shall include, but not be limited to, an animal clinic,
animal hospital, or veterinary office or kennel.

ANTENNA: A transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunication that radiates or
captures radio or other signals, including omnidirectional or whip, directional or panel, parabolic
or dish, and ancillary antennas.

APARTMENT: A room, or suite of rooms, in a multiple-family structure or dwelling unit,
providing living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation to a single family, for rent, lease, let or
hire to be used as a single dwelling.

ARTERIAL: See definition of Street, Arterial.

ARTIST STUDIO: The use of the site for small scale, craftsman operated production of
materials, assembly of parts, or the blending of materials, including metal and/or plastics, for the
purpose of creating art. This would include frame shops as an accessory use.

ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT AND RECREATION FACILITIES: The use of a site or facility for
entertainment, spectator sports or recreational activities. The use includes, but is not limited to
amusement parks, motion picture and performing arts theaters, racetracks, sports fields, golf

                                                  34
courses, museums, zoos, marinas, bowling, video and other games and amusements. For
wedding and corporate events see events center.


ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT AND RECREATION FACILITIES: The indoor or outdoor use of a
property and/or structure for public or private gatherings for entertainment, spectator sporting
events, live music, or recreational activities. The use includes, but is not limited to amusement
parks, movie theaters, racetracks, sports fields, zoos, marinas, bowling alleys and skating rinks,
miniature golf courses or driving ranges (not associated with a Golf Course), video and other
games and amusements, or other organized events where food service may be provided,
amplified music or excessive noise may be present and area for a large amount of parking is
necessary. For wedding and corporate events see events center.


ASPHALT PLANT: An establishment where asphalt, tar, gravel and other materials are
combined to produce pavement and other related products.

AUCTION FACILITY: An establishment primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new
and used merchandise on an auction basis.

AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE (ATM): A pedestrian oriented banking device operated by
a financial institution for use by its customers for conducting transactions. The machines may be
located at or within the financial institutions, or in other locations. ATMs for use by customers in
vehicles are included in the definition of "drive-through establishment/drive-up window service".

AUTOMOTIVE HOBBY: A use involving the restoration, maintenance and/or preservation of
motor vehicles for personal enjoyment of owner or occupant.
AUTOMOTIVE MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE:
Establishments primarily engaged in providing mechanical or electrical repair and maintenance
services for automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks and vans, and all trailers. These
establishments may specialize in a single service or may provide a wide range of these services.

AWNING: A projecting cover extending over a door, window or wall section with support
attached to the structures and used as cover, protection, or as decoration.

BAKERY: Establishments primarily engaged in making and preparing bakery products.

BAR/TAVERN/LOUNGE/DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT: The use of a site primarily for the
sale or dispensing of alcohol by the drink or glass. The use includes, but is not limited to, lounge,
nightclub, and tavern.

BARBERSHOP/STYLING SALON: An establishment where the following services are allowed
by licensed professionals: haircutting, shampooing, shaves, perms, hair coloring, manicuring,
tanning booths, including cosmetology of hair and makeup.

BARRIER: A vertical element including, but not limited to, a fence, wall, structure, or a

                                                 35
combination thereof, that completely surrounds an area and controls access to such area.

BASEMENT: The bottom floor of a dwelling unit, all or partly underground, having at least one-
half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining grade.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A professionally run facility providing up to six (6) rooms for
temporary overnight accommodations, and where the owner/innkeeper is resident on the
property. A bed and breakfast provides breakfast for overnight guests but does not provide a
restaurant and/or bar. For accommodations similar but not limited to an Airbnb or VRBO, see
short-term rental.

BERM: An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest, screen undesirable views, and/or
decrease noise.

BEVERAGE BOTTLING PLANT: An establishment that produces consumable liquids
(alcoholic or nonalcoholic) in bottles and/or cans.

BLOCK: Land containing a lot or lots in a subdivision completely surrounded by public rights of
way or boundaries of the subdivision.

BOARDING HOUSE: An establishment other than a hotel, motel or short-term rental, where
meals and/or lodging are provided with or without compensation, to more than two (2) but less
than twelve (12) unrelated persons. A boarding house shall include, but not be limited to, a
rooming house, shelter, convent, monastery, dormitory, fraternity, sorority, etc. A boarding
house does not provide a restaurant or a bar.
BREWERY: The use of a site that brews/manufactures/distributes such beverages as beer, ale
and cider. The use may include the ancillary sale or dispensing of said beverages by the drink,
glass or growler.

BREWPUB: An establishment, restaurant or bar that usually serves food and brews and sells
beer or similar alcoholic drink that is made on the premises. Typically, they do not bottle and sell
other than in very small take home quantities. They do not distribute their beer.

BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a lot after the minimum open space requirements
have been complied with.

BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the average elevation of the
proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs,
to the deck line of mansard roofs, and the midpoint between the top of the peak and the facia line
for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.

BUILDING ENVELOPE: The area on a property exclusive of the required yards, setbacks,
buffers, and unbuildable areas.

BUILDING MATERIAL, GARDEN EQUIPMENT, AND SUPPLIES: The use of a site for the
retail sale and service of merchandise used in home and garden improvements. The use includes
home and garden centers; hardware stores; lawn and garden equipment supply stores; paint and

                                                 36
wallpaper stores; lumberyards; nursery, garden and farm supply stores. See also nursery, garden
center and farm supplies.

BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of the building code as established by title 7 of this code or the
building official's duly authorized representative.


CALIPER: A measurement of the diameter of the trunk of a deciduous tree. The caliper of the
trunk shall be measured six inches (6") above the ground for all trees up to and including four-
inch (4") caliper size, and twelve inches (12") above the ground for larger sizes.

CAMPGROUND: An area or ground on which tents/yurts, buildings, cabins or spaces, RVs,
campers, are provided for temporary shelter, lodging or accommodation.
CANOPY: A roof-like structure projecting from the exterior surface of a building, may be
attached to the building or freestanding, constructed of a supporting framework and covered with
nonrigid materials.

CARETAKER UNIT: A dwelling unit for a person or persons hired to look after or take charge
of goods, property or a person; or, a recreational vehicle or motor vehicle equipped as living
quarters parked at a construction site, on a non-permanent basis, for the purpose of providing
security during nonworking hours. This definition shall not include tents/yurts.

CEMENT OR CLAY PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING: An establishment where pottery,
decorative shapes or other similar products are made.
CEMETERY: The use of a site for the interment of human and/or animal remains or cremated
remains. The use includes burial parks, mausoleum for vault or crypt interments, columbarium
for cinerary interments or a combination thereof.

CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY (CO): Official certification that a building and site conform
to the provisions of building and city codes.

CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE (CZC): An approval issued by the administrator
that certifies that a structure or use, including accessory uses, meets the requirements of this title.

CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING PLANT: A factory where chemicals are produced and/or
stored.

CHILD CARE FACILITY: Any structure or place where nonmedical care, protection or
supervision is regularly provided to children under twelve (12) years of age, for periods of less
than twenty-four (24) hours per day, while the parents or guardians are not on the premises. For
the purpose of persons with disabilities of any age, this section shall also apply. There are four
(4) types of childcare facilities distinguished by the number of individuals served:

A. Child Care center: More than twelve (12).


                                                  37
B. Child Care, group: More than six (6) but no greater than twelve (12).

C. Child Care, family: Six (6) or fewer.

D. Preschool/Early Learning – Maximum of twenty-five (25) children.

CHURCH OR PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP: An establishment that by design and
construction is primarily intended for conducting organized religious services, meetings, and
associated activities and that is recognized as a religious corporation or society of the state of
Idaho with a state tax exempt status in accord with Idaho Code section 63-602B.

CIVIC, SOCIAL AND FRATERNAL ORGANIZATIONS: A facility owned or operated by an
organized association of persons for a social, literary, political, educational or recreational
purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and their guests; and not primarily operated
for profit nor to render a service that is customarily carried on as a business.

COLD STORAGE: An establishment that provides storage of perishable foods, furs, and like
items in a frozen or refrigerated state.
COLLOCATION: The use of a single tower to support more than one wireless
telecommunication service provider's equipment, or the mounting of an antenna to a preexisting
structure.
COMMERCIAL USE: An occupancy of a building, structure or other property which involves
any retail sale, wholesale distribution, office, entertainment service, recreational area, restaurant,
room for rent, manufacturing, hybrid production facility or other nonresidential use. However,
this definition shall not include home occupations, churches, public schools, hospitals, public
civic centers or public recreation facilities, or other facilities owned by, or operated strictly for
the benefit of the public.

COMMON DRIVE: Also referred to as a shared driveway. An access shared by adjacent
property owners that is privately owned and maintained. Common or shared driveways shall not
be permitted in new residential developments without approval from the Council and Fire
District.

CONCRETE BATCH PLANT: An establishment that combines cement, sand and gravel to
produce concrete.

CONDITIONAL USE: A use that, owing to some special characteristics attendant to its
operation or installation (for example, potential danger, hours of operation, or noise), is allowed
in a district subject to approval by the council and subject to special requirements in
conformance with this title and as enabled by Idaho Code section 67-6512.

CONDOMINIUM: An apartment house, office building or other multiple-unit complex, the units
of which are individually owned, each owner receiving a recordable deed to the individual unit
purchased, including the right to sell, mortgage, etc., that unit and sharing in joint ownership of
any common grounds, passageways, etc.


                                                  38
CONFERENCE/CONVENTION CENTER: A facility that is designed, constructed, and devoted
to hosting conferences, exhibitions, large meetings, seminars, and training sessions.

CONTRACTOR'S YARD: Any area of land used by a contractor for storage, maintenance, or
processing incidental to the business of building, hauling, excavation, demolition, or similar
activity and including any area of land used for minor preinstallation work or repair of
machinery used for any of the above listed activities. Shall also include the parking or storage of
multiple commercial vehicles on a single lot or parcel not associated with a specific business
located on the same property.

CONVENIENCE STORE: Establishments known as convenience stores or food marts primarily
engaged in retailing a limited line of goods that generally includes milk, bread, beverages, and
snacks. The establishment may include fuel pumps.

DAIRY FARM: An operation whose principal function is the production of milk.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for public use, charitable, religious,
or educational purposes.

DENSITY, GROSS: The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development
divided by the total area, including streets; alleys; easements; waterways; and common spaces.

DENSITY, NET: The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development divided
by the total area, excluding streets; alleys; easements; waterways; and common spaces, and any
other area not devoted to the residential use.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or installation of a structure, or any change in use of a
structure, or any subdivision of property, or any change in the use of the land that creates
additional demand and/or need for public facilities.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement as a condition of annexation or rezone
between the council and an owner or applicant concerning the use or development of a property
in accord with Idaho Code section 67-6511A and chapter 1, "Administration", of this title.

DISTILLERY: The use of a site that distills/manufactures distilled beverages. The use may
include the ancillary sale or dispensing of liquor by the drink or glass.

DISTRICT OR ZONE: The zoning district classification, listed in chapter 3 of this title, in effect
on any given property.

DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT/DRIVE-UP WINDOW SERVICE: The use of a
portion of a structure where business is transacted, or is capable of being transacted, directly with
customers located in a motor vehicle. The term drive-through establishment shall include, but not
be limited to, providing food or beverage service, bank services, and/or prescription processing.
The term drive-through establishment shall not include fuel sales facility or "vehicle washing
facility" as herein defined.

DUSTLESS MATERIALS: Hard surfaces used for driveways, loading and parking including,
but not limited to, concrete, asphalt, grasscrete, pavers, grass, specifically treated gravel, and

                                                 39
bricks. Treated gravel shall include an acceptable application treatment as determined by the
administrator.

DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A structure, or portion thereof, that contains three (3) or more
dwelling units or apartments, where all such units are located on the same property. For the
purposes of this title, a multi-family dwelling shall be deemed multi-family development.

DWELLING OR DWELLING UNIT: Any structure, or portion thereof, providing independent
living facilities for one "family" as herein defined, including provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking, and sanitation.

DWELLING, SECONDARY: A habitable dwelling unit established in conjunction with and
subordinate to a single-family dwelling unit. The term shall include guesthouse and granny flat.
See also guesthouse/granny flat/mother-in-law quarters.

DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED: A structure containing two (2) or more dwelling
units attached by a common wall or walls, where each dwelling unit is located on a separate
property. May be referred as townhomes.

DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A detached structure that accommodates a
single dwelling.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY DUPLEX: A structure containing two (2) dwelling units attached
by a common wall, where both dwelling units are located on the same property.

EDUCATION INSTITUTION, PRIVATE: The use of a site for education purposes not
financially supported by the state of Idaho. The use includes, but is not limited to, elementary
and secondary schools; institutions of higher learning; professional, technical and trade schools;
driving schools; fine arts schools and studios. For pre-elementary schools, see childcare facility.

EDUCATION INSTITUTION, PUBLIC: The use of a site for education financially supported
by the state of Idaho. The use includes, but is not limited to, elementary and secondary schools;
institutions of higher learning; and vocational schools.

EQUIPMENT SALES, RENTAL AND SERVICES: The use of a site for the sale, rental or
servicing of tools, trucks, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, or similar
industrial equipment.

EVENTS/ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. PUBLIC & PRIVATE, INDOOR OR OUTDOOR:
A The indoor or outdoor use of a property and/or structure for public or private gatherings to
include wedding receptions, corporate events, live music events, cultural events, recreation,
sporting events, entertainment uses including but not limited to bowling alleys and skating rinks,
miniature golf courses or driving ranges (not associated with a Golf Course), movie theaters, or
other organized events where food service may be provided, amplified music or excessive noise
may be present and area for a large amount of parking is necessary.

FABRICATION SHOP: An establishment in which welding work, machining to size,

                                                40
assembling of materials and converting one form of metal or other materials such as plastic, into
another to produce products and structures. See also definition of Manufacturing Plant.

FACADE: The front or face of a building or structure.
FAMILY: A. A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage;

B. Eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or elderly persons
residing in a dwelling under staff supervision, provided that no more than two (2) staff members
reside in the dwelling at any one time.

FARM: Buildings and premises used for the raising and processing of agricultural products.

FARMERS' MARKET: Typically found outdoors, where multiple vendors sell directly to the
consumer. Vendors may sell a variety of items not limited to fruits and vegetables; plants and
trees; handmade items including crafts, jewelry, baked goods, etc. The sale of animals is not a
part of this definition. Also referred to as a Saturday or outdoor market. All vendors are subject
to city permits. See Temporary Uses.

FEEDLOT: A concentrated animal feeding operation (CAFO).

FENCE: An enclosure or barrier constructed of wood, masonry, stone, wire, metal or other
materials manufactured specifically to be used to enclose, screen or separate areas. Walls,
latticework, and screens are considered fences. Items such as wooden pallets, firewood logs, or
manufactured items such as skis, are not considered fencing material.

FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: The use of a site for lending, exchanging and handling money or
currency for customers. The use includes, but is not limited to, credit unions, savings and loan,
commercial banks, cash machines, insurance agents, and loan establishments.
FIREWORKS STAND: A temporary structure used for retail business of selling fireworks. (See
also definition of Temporary Use.)

FLAG: Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or emblems used as a
symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other such entity. Any fabric or bunting
containing distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols used to communicate business identification
and/or attract, distract, hold, direct or focus public attention.

FLAGPOLE: A pole, usually made of metal, on which a flag is hoisted and displayed. See sign
ordinance for regulations related to flag poles.

FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCE STORAGE: An establishment, or portion thereof, wherein
combustible substances (as defined by the fire code) are stored.

FLEX SPACE: Allows for uses that generally require substantial amounts of storage and
working area as well as office and/or showroom space. This use is not intended to permit
warehousing or manufacturing that has high levels of truck activity. Loading docks shall be at
the rear of the structure, shall be screened from view from street and neighboring uses, and

                                                41
loading ramps shall be a maximum of two feet (2') high to discourage tractor trailer use.
Examples of uses include, but are not limited to, lighting/plumbing fixture showrooms, small
merchandise assembly, and low intensity sales and distribution facilities. Gross floor area of each
building used as "flex space" shall be a maximum of thirty thousand (30,000) square feet. Hours
of operation shall be based on specific districts.

FLOODPLAIN: The relatively flat area or low land adjoining the channel of a river, stream, lake
or other body of water which has been, or may be, covered by water of a flood of one percent
(1%) chance in any given year. The floodplain includes the channel, floodway or floodway
fringes, as established by Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Refer to Flood
Control Code Chapter 10, Title 1.

FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The measure of total square footage of habitable space of a structure.

FOOD PRODUCTS, PROCESSING: The use of a site for producing, manufacturing, processing
or storage of food products. The use includes, but is not limited to, bakery, beverages, coffee
roasting, ice, snacks, fruits, vegetables, spices, confectionery, and dairy products. Excluded uses
are animal products, seafood, milling and refining.
FOOD STAND: A temporary, immobile structure, booth, stall, counter or the like operated by a
vendor standing on or within the frame of the structure, booth, stall, counter or the like. Goods
sold from a stand may include, but are not limited to, perishable and nonperishable food items,
merchandise, and sundries. (See also definition of Temporary Use.)

FOOTPRINT: Area of the ground covered by a structure, including the foundation and all areas
enclosed by exterior walls and/or footings.

FULL CUTOFF SHIELD: In its installed position, a light fixture with a full cutoff shield will not
allow any direct light above a horizontal plane and no more than five percent (5%) of the total
light output may come from the zone from fifteen degrees (15°) below the horizontal to the
horizontal plane.

GARAGE: An enclosed accessory building designed for private storage or parking of
noncommercial vehicles. A private garage attached to, or part of, the main building is considered
to be part of the main use but may not be built prior to the primary structure.

GASOLINE, FUELING AND CHARGING STATION: An establishment known as a gasoline
or fueling station primarily engaged in one of the following: a) retailing automotive fuels (e.g.,
diesel fuel, gasohol, gasoline) b) electric charging stations; or c) retailing these fuels in
combination with activities, such as providing repair services. May also include convenience
stores.

GLARE: Light emitted from a fixture with intensity great enough to cause visual discomfort, eye
fatigue, reduction in a viewer's ability to see, and in extreme cases, momentary blindness.

GOLF COURSE: An area of land laid out for the game of golf with a series of nine (9) or
eighteen (18) holes, each including tee, fairway and putting green, and often one or more natural

                                                42
or artificial hazards, and which may include a driving range and clubhouse with restaurant and
bar.

GOVERNMENT OFFICE: An enterprise or office authorized by a federal, state, local or foreign
government to conduct public business and assistance as provided in applicable federal, state, or
local code or constitution. (See definition of Public Or Quasi-Public Use.)

GRADE: The elevation of the natural or finished surface of the ground adjacent to the midpoint
of any exterior wall of a building or structure.

GRAND OPENING: A promotional activity used by newly established businesses, within two
(2) months after occupancy, to inform the public of their location and service available to the
community. Grand opening does not mean an annual or occasional promotion of retail sales by a
business.

GREENHOUSE: A building whose roof and sides are made largely of transparent or translucent
materials and in which the temperature and humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of
plants. This use is accessory to a residential or principally permitted use.
GREENHOUSE, COMMERCIAL: Any greenhouse used for the purpose of growing goods for
wholesale or retail sales.
GROSS LAND AREA: The total area of the land being developed, exclusive of required street
buffers and buffers between incompatible land uses. The calculation for required open space in
residential subdivisions and multi-family residential development is based on the gross land area
of the land being developed.

GUESTHOUSE/GRANNY FLAT/MOTHER-IN-LAW QUARTERS: An additional site-built
house on a lot or parcel of land that: is owned by the owner of the lot or parcel containing the
owner's residence; does not have its own separate house number (address); has inhabitable space
not greater than 50% of the footprint of the primary dwelling; and is located within or attached to
the primary dwelling, as a detached structure, or above a detached structure, such as a garage.
(See Secondary Accessory Dwelling Unit Specific Standards).

HARDSHIP: An unusual situation on an individual property that will not permit the property
owner to enjoy the full utilization of their property as is enjoyed by others in the same district. A
hardship can exist only when it is not self-created and is not financially based. Examples of
hardship include unusual shape of the property, natural features, or other exceptional physical
conditions on the property.

HEALTH AND FITNESS CLUBS: A health club (also known as a fitness club, fitness center,
health spa, weight room and commonly referred to as a gym) is a place that houses exercise
equipment for the purpose of physical exercise. This is usually a commercial establishment
having members who pay a fee to use its health and fitness facilities and equipment.

HEALTHCARE AND SOCIAL SERVICES: The use of a site for ambulatory healthcare
services. Included in this use are offices of dentists; physicians; chiropractors; optometrists;
mental health practitioners; physical, occupational and speech therapists; audiologists; outpatient

                                                 43
care centers; family planning centers, medical and diagnostic laboratories, imaging centers,
kidney dialysis centers; blood and organ banks.

HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from finished grade to the top of the pole, structure, or
tower, including the antenna. See also Building Height.

HELIPORT: A publicly or privately-owned area of land that is used or intended for the landing
and takeoff of helicopters, including the necessary accessory structures of facilities for storing
and maintenance of helicopters.

HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT: Parcel, lot, tract, or other defined area of land that has a ground
slope of ten percent (10%) or more.

HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The research, documentation, protection, restoration and
rehabilitation of buildings, structures, objects, districts, areas and site significance in the history,
architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, the state or the nation.

HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, structure, area or site that is significant in the history,
architecture, archaeology or culture of this community, the state or the nation.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation, profession, activity, or use that is clearly an incidental
and secondary use of a residential dwelling unit and that does not alter the exterior of the
property or affect the residential character of the neighborhood. Must be approved by the HOA
if applicable.

HOSPITAL: A medical institution licensed by the state that is devoted to the maintenance and
operation of facilities for the medical or surgical care of patients twenty-four (24) hours a day
and may include air transport facilities. The term hospital does not include healthcare and social
services, nursing and residential care facility, or establishments that forcibly confine patients.

HOTEL/MOTEL: An establishment that provides lodging to the public for a fee as defined by
Idaho Code 67-4711, excluding boarding houses, bed and breakfast establishments or short-term
rentals as herein defined. This classification may include incidental eating or drinking services.
IMPACT AREA: The land established and adopted by ordinance by the city council, within the
unincorporated area of the county, shown on the comprehensive plan future land use map and as
defined in Idaho state code section 67-6509.

IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A surface that has been compacted or covered with a layer of
material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration or absorption by water. It includes surfaces
such as compacted sand or clay as well as most conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks
and parking lots.

INDUSTRIAL UNIT: Any structure or land use which is used for the manufacture, processing,
fabrication and testing of goods and materials and includes the production of power. It does not
refer to the growing of agricultural products or the raising of livestock.

INDUSTRY, HEAVY: A. A use engaged in the basic processing and manufacturing of materials

                                                   44
or products, predominately from extracted or raw materials;

B. A use engaged in storage or manufacturing processes using flammable or explosive materials;

C. Storage or manufacturing processes that potentially involve hazardous or commonly
recognized offensive conditions.

INDUSTRY, INFORMATION: The use of a site for processing data. The use includes, but is not
limited to, publishing industries such as newspapers, books, music, internet and software;
recording and broadcasting studios; data processing centers, call centers, internet providers and
other information systems.

INDUSTRY, LIGHT: A use engaged in the manufacture, processing, fabrication, assembly,
treatment, and/or packaging of finished products or parts, predominantly from previously
prepared materials.

INSTITUTION: An establishment which aids individuals in need of mental, therapeutic,
rehabilitative counseling or other correctional services.

JUNK: Discarded, used, or secondhand materials, including, but not limited to, used machinery,
scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, other ferrous and nonferrous metals, tools, appliances,
implements, vehicles or portions thereof, furniture, beds and bedding, rags, glass, plastic,
cordage, rubber, building materials (excluding lumber), or other waste that has been abandoned
from its original use and may be used again in its present or in a new form.
JUNKYARD: See definition of Vehicle Wrecking Yard/Junkyard.

KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion, indoors or outdoors, on which more than four (4) dogs
or cats are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for or kept for sale. See
specific uses.

LABORATORY: A place for scientific research: Where research and testing is carried out.

LABORATORY, MEDICAL: An establishment where medical, dental, and optical equipment
and supplies, or drugs and related chemicals are manufactured.

LAGOON: An open structure or containment area designed to treat liquid manure or sewage
through biodegradation by bacteria.

LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE: Watering, weeding, pruning, mowing, litter removal, pest
control, and removal/repair of vandalism as needed to maintain a neat and orderly appearance.

LAUNDROMAT: A. An establishment that provides washing, drying, and/or ironing machines
for hire;

B. An establishment that provides washing, drying and/or ironing services to walk-in retail
customers.

                                               45
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING: An establishment that washes large quantities of laundry
or dry cleaning for patrons, may also be combined with a laundromat.

LIGHT INDUSTRY: See definition of Industry, Light.

LIGHTING, DIRECT: Lighting, the source of which is visible to a viewer and/or which is
reflected from the surface of a sign or building. This definition shall include exposed neon lights
and tubing.

LIGHTING, INDIRECT OR INTERNAL: Lighting for which the source of light is located in
such a manner that the light must travel through a translucent material other than the bulb or tube
necessary to enclose the light source, which material has the effect of dispersing the light before
it strikes the eye of the viewer.

LIVE/WORK UNIT: A unit or units consisting of both a commercial/office/light industrial
component and a residential component and typically constructed as a single unit. The “work”
component is restricted to specific uses within the CBD and MU zoning district. The “live”
component may be located on the street level (on the side or behind the work component) or any
other level of the building. Live/work units shall have internal access between use components or
floors. See Multiple Use Buildings for other multi-use options.

LIVING AREA: The area of a residential dwelling as measured in square feet, excluding the
garage.
LOADING SPACE: Space, logically and conveniently located for pick-ups and deliveries,
scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used and accessible to such vehicles. Required off
street loading space is not to be included as required off street parking space. All off street
loading spaces shall be located totally outside of any street or alley right of way. Lighting
associated with the use shall be directed away from any residential use or district.

LOT: A parcel of land and/or a portion of a subdivision, of sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces
as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public street or on an
approved private street and may consist of:

A. A single lot of record;

B. A portion of a recorded subdivision or a property intended as a unit for transfer of ownership
or for development.

LOT, COMMON: A lot held in common ownership among all owners of the subdivision and
separate from individual building lots.

LOT, CORNER: A lot located at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.

LOT FRONTAGE: The front of the property, measured along the street from side property line

                                                46
to side property line. On corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage.

LOT, INTERIOR: A lot which abuts only one street.
LOT, FLAG: A property in the shape of a flag on a pole where access to the street is from a
narrow right of way. Flag lots are not permitted within residential subdivisions with zoning
designations higher than R-2, and/or lot sizes less than half an acre in size. All other flag lots
may only be permitted upon approval from the Fire District. Turn-around for emergency services
shall be required.

LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot or parcel from the street on which it takes
access, excluding alleys.
LOT LINE, REAR: The property line opposite and most distant from the front property line.
Where the lot or parcel is irregular and the property lines converge, the rear property line shall be
deemed to be a line at a point where the side property lines are not less than twenty feet (20')
apart.

LOT LINE, SIDE: Any property line other than a front or rear property line. A property line
adjoining a street is called a street side property line. A property line adjoining another property
is called an interior side property line.

LOT, NONCONFORMING: A parcel of land which was created prior to the provisions of the
city of Star's Unified Development Code but was in compliance with the zoning and subdivision
ordinance(s) that were in effect at the time such parcel was created.

LOT-LINE OR PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: The adjustment of the boundary
between properties where: a) the dimensions of the properties are not reduced below the
minimum dimensional standards for the applicable district; b) there is no increase in the original
number of properties; and c) no easements, public streets, private roads or publicly dedicated
areas are affected.

MANAGEMENT COMPANY: A company conducting the operation, control, maintenance, and
oversight of a residential or commercial development or subdivision, apartment or condominium
community.

MANUFACTURED HOME: A. A dwelling constructed according to HUD/FHA construction
and safety standards and as defined by Idaho Code section 39-4105.

B. A rehabilitated dwelling certified by the state of Idaho department of labor and industry,
building safety division.

MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A multi-family residential development developed
exclusively for siting manufactured homes on individual spaces that are rented or leased.

MANUFACTURING PLANT: Shall include the processing, packaging, or assembly of products,
and incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding those uses as

                                                  47
defined in heavy industry.

MEATPACKING PLANT: An establishment maintained for canning, curing, smoking, salting,
packing, freezing, storing or other similar uses in which meat products are processed for
commercial sale.

MEDICAL CLINIC: A building used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of persons who seek
medical/surgical attention. This does not include medical care facilities which provide board,
room or regular hospital services.

MINING, Pit or Quarry and Accessory Pits: Establishments that extract naturally occurring
mineral solids, such as coal, gravel and ores; liquid minerals, such as crude petroleum; and gases,
such as natural gas. The term mining is used in the broad sense to include quarrying, well
operations, beneficiating (e.g., crushing, screening, washing, and flotation), and other preparation
customarily performed at the mine site, or as a part of mining activity. Water amenities, such as
ponds, created as a part of an approved subdivision, shall be reviewed as an accessory pit, but
shall not be considered mining, unless materials are removed from the project site.

MIXED-USE DEVELOPMENT: The development of a tract of land which includes uses from
two (2) or more of the land use categories such as residential, commercial, office, light industrial,
public space or agricultural. See also definition of Multiple Use Building and Live/Work Unit.

MOBILE HOME: A transportable structure suitable for year-round single-family occupancy and
having water, electrical and sewage connections similar to those of conventional dwellings. This
definition applies only to units constructed prior to June 15, 1976.

MONOPOLE: A cylindrical shaped pole, usually made of steel, that has no visible break in
shape or appearance, other than tapering, which is secured to the ground in a manner to stand
vertically upright.

MORTUARY: An establishment in which deceased human bodies are kept and prepared for
burial or cremation.

MOTEL: See definition of Hotel/Motel.

MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT: Development where there are three (3) or more dwelling
units or apartments located on the same property and held in single ownership. A multi-family
dwelling may or may not be present on the property.

MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Multi-Family.

MULTIPLE USE BUILDING: Also known as mixed use or multi-use structures. The
development of a building or structure which includes uses from two (2) or more of the land use
categories such as residential, commercial, office, or light industrial. Multi-use structures
consisting of both a commercial/office/light industrial and a residential component shall not have
internal access between units on separate floors and shall be constructed as a separate unit under

                                                 48
a condominium regime or as multi-family units. See Live/Work Unit for other multi-use options.

NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES: Abutting properties and any properties separated from the
subject property solely by a roadway or dedicated easement. (See Transitional Lot.)
NONCONFORMING PROPERTY: A property that lawfully existed prior to the effective date of
this title, but that does not now conform to the standards for the district in which it is located.

NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure that was lawfully constructed and/or existing
prior to the effective date of this title but that does not conform to the standards for the district in
which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use that lawfully existed prior to the effective date of this title but
that does not now conform to the allowed uses for the district in which it is located. For the
purposes of this title, nonconforming parking lot design and landscaping shall be deemed a
nonconforming use.

NURSERY, GARDEN CENTER AND FARM SUPPLY: An establishment that primarily
engages in retailing nursery and garden products, such as trees, shrubs, plants, seeds, bulbs, and
sod Also included are establishments primarily engaged in retailing farm supplies, such as
animal feed. See also Building Materials.

NURSING AND RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: The use of a site for providing assistance
to individuals needed to perform the routines of daily life. The use includes, but is not limited to,
children's treatment facility, assisted care, skilled nursing facility, residential care facility, and
drug and alcohol treatment facility. The number of rooms within such a facility are not to be
calculated as residential density.

OFFICE SECURITY FACILITY: An establishment utilized by security personnel in the
fulfillment of their job to protect local properties, businesses, individuals, and/or the community
at large.

OPEN SPACE, DEVELOPED: An area of open land used for recreational opportunities and that
provides either active or passive recreational facilities. The term shall not include streets, parking
areas, unusable drainage areas as determined by the administrator, or structures for habitation.

OPEN SPACE, NATURAL: An area of open land, with little or no land disturbance, preserved,
enhanced and/or restored in order to maintain the natural, scenic, ecological, cultural,
hydrological, geological, or agricultural values of the land. Natural open space may include trails
and park bench style seating; interpretive signage and kiosks for educational purposes; and
agricultural activities.

OPEN SPACE, USABLE AREA: Among other useable open space areas as may be determined
by the Council, the following areas shall be included into the calculation for “Usable Area of
Open Space”. Active recreational facilities, trails, pathways, park bench style seating,
interpretive signage and kiosks for educational purposes, picnic areas, community gardens,
courses or courts, children's play areas, dog play areas, and portions of irrigation ditches when
incorporated with a pathway. Landscape buffer areas, not required pursuant to other sections of

                                                  49
this title, may be considered, in part, as useable open space provided a pathway or other usable
amenity is located within and incorporated into the buffer area.
This shall include detached sidewalk buffers. Up to fifty percent (50%) of the total area of water
bodies (i.e., ponds) within a development may be considered usable area provided only if there is
a finding that the ponds employ active recreation capabilities such as fishing, rafting, canoeing,
and the like and is available to all residents of the subdivision. All ponds shall be aerated.
Irrigation ditches, drainage ditches and the like, shall not be considered water bodies and therefor
shall not be a part of the usable open space area calculations, unless left as natural open space, as
herein defined, and provided with either open style fencing, pathways, or both.

PARKING LOT/PARKING GARAGE: A site/building for parking vehicles for a fee. May also
include the parking of multiple vehicles on a vacant property without financial compensation.

PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: An area adequate for parking an automobile with
dimensions conforming to the requirements of this title.

PARKS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE: A public or private open space that is primarily used for
active recreation.

PAWNSHOP: An enclosed building where all business is conducted for the loaning of money,
purchase, sale or exchange of used items. (See Specific Use Standards)

PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not containing a
message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually in series, designed to move
in the wind. The display of a single pennant, unattached to another, may be regarded as a type of
decorative flag.

PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: The use of a site for the provision of
individualized services generally related to personal needs. Personal service uses include, but are
not limited to, beauty and healthcare services such as salons, hair, nail and skin care, spa, and
barbers; locksmiths; and repairs such as footwear and leather goods, and watches. Professional
service uses include, but are not limited to architects, landscape architects and other design
services; computer designers; consultants; accountants; lawyers; media advisors; photography
studios; realtors and title companies.

PHARMACY: An establishment where medical prescriptions are filled and sold. An
establishment where medical supplies, over the counter drugs, and a variety of other merchandise
is sold.

PHOTOGRAPHIC STUDIO: An establishment or building utilized for the creation and/or
production of pictures on photographic, reproduction or electronic media.

PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): Property planned as a unit that demonstrates
innovation and creativity in site design to protect natural features, preserve open space and create
public amenities. A well-designed urban type development characterized by a wide mix of uses,
on site amenities, trip capture, and connectivity within the community; conservation of open

                                                 50
space and preservation of environmental attributes; an emphasis on community character and
forming a sense of community. A PUD may contain a specific use exception for uses not allowed
in the zoning district and may allow for a density bonus.

PORTABLE CLASSROOMS/MODULAR BUILDING: A building or building component,
other than a manufactured home, which is constructed according to standards contained in the
international building code, as adopted, which is of closed construction and is either entirely or
substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the building site, used for
private/public education facilities.

POWER PLANT: An electricity generating facility regulated by the federal energy regulatory
commission including, but not limited to, fossil fuel, geothermal, hydroelectric, biomass, solar
and wind energy conversion facilities.

PRINCIPAL USE: The use of land or a structure allowed outright in a specific district as
distinguished from an accessory or conditional use. Principal uses shall be subject to review
through the CZC process.

PROCESSING PLANT: A building where the act of converting material from one form to
another occurs.

PROFESSIONAL OFFICES: Offices and related spaces maintained and used as a place of
business, such as doctors, dentists, engineers, attorneys, architects, accountants and other persons
providing professional services.

PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE: The use of a site for a public infrastructure including, but not
limited to a) power substation, electric substation, grid switching site, electric transmission line;
b) public well and/or water reservoir; and c) municipal wastewater and treatment facility; d. Fire
Station.

PUBLIC UTILITY YARD: A yard where facilities such as utility shops, garages, or storage
areas are located that are owned and operated by a public utility.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A portable structure primarily designed as temporary living
accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use and as defined in Idaho Code section
49-119.

RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A premises upon which two (2) or more parking sites are
located, established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles for temporary use for
recreation or vacation purposes. Density allowances of the specific zoning district shall not be
used to calculate the number of parking sites for the park.
RECYCLING CENTER: An establishment that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable
resource materials, such as paper products, glassware, and metal cans, are collected, sorted,
flattened, crushed, or bundled within a completely enclosed structure prior to shipment to others
who use such resource materials to manufacture new products.


                                                 51
RESEARCH ACTIVITIES: A use that has facilities or laboratories for scientific research,
investigation, testing, or experimentation, but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of
products, except as incidental to the main purpose of the facility.

RESIDENTIAL PARKING DISTRICT: A geographical area of residential streets which are
designated by resolution of the Star City Council for the purpose of managing parking issues
specific to such area. Residents and businesses located within such designated area may apply
for and, if qualified, receive permits which exempt their associated vehicle(s) from the parking
time restrictions otherwise enforced in such area.

RESTAURANT: A. The use of a site for the primary purpose of food preparation, having
kitchen and cooking facilities, and where meals are regularly served to the public for
compensation.

B. Establishments with a liquor and/or beer and wine license that includes a restaurant certificate
and that meet the definition of restaurant as set forth in Idaho administrative code.

RETAIL STORE/RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES: The use of a site that offers merchandise
to the public for monetary compensation. The use includes, but is not limited to, convenience
stores; food stores; apparel and accessories stores; book, computer, and music stores; electronics
and appliances; florists; furniture and home furnishings; general merchandise stores; health and
personal care stores; hobby, office supplies, stationery and gift stores; specialty stores; sporting
goods; and used merchandise stores.

RETIREMENT HOME: A residential establishment shared by eight (8) or more persons, fifty-
five (55) years or older, or their immediate family, where care and supervision are not provided.

SAND AND/OR GRAVEL YARD: A commercial establishment where sand and gravel, soil
and soil blends, decorative rock and aggregate are produced, and/or washed and/or sold. See also
Mining.

SELF-SERVICE USES: Any commercial use in which there is not an attendant on the site
during all hours of operation, including, but not limited to, automated teller machines,
laundromats, vehicle washing, fuel sales facilities, and storage facilities.

SERVICE BUILDING: A permanent building or buildings designed to provide service facilities
to the inhabitants or users of any development.

SETBACK LINE: The minimum required distance between the property line and the nearest
structure. See figure 8-1E-2.

SHOOTING RANGE: Any facility designed and operated for the safe practice of shooting rifles,
shotguns, pistols, black powder devices, archery or any other similar device, which may include
any accessory uses and structures normally associated with this activity.

SHOPPING OR COMMERCIAL CENTER: A group of two (2) or more retail sale, office or

                                                 52
service commercial establishments, attached or detached that are planned, developed, owned
and/or managed as units related in location, size and type of shops to the trade area the unit
serves.

SHORT-TERM RENTAL: A short-term rental refers to the rental of part or all of any legally
permitted dwelling unit for fewer than 30 consecutive days. Also referred to as an Airbnb,
VRBO or a hostel.

SINGLE-FAMILY RENTAL COMMUNITY (SFRC): (Add to Code)

SITE PLAN: A plan, to scale, showing existing and proposed uses, structures and improvements
proposed for a property as required by the regulations involved. Such plans include property
lines, streets, driveways, parking, building sites, landscaping, open space, and utility easements.

SOIL STABILIZATION: The state of having sufficient vegetation and gradual slopes to prevent
soil erosion and sedimentation onto adjacent features such as streets, sidewalks, driveways,
parking areas, lawns, or water bodies.

SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION: The use of a site for the collection and temporary
storage of solid waste for subsequent transport to a permanent disposal location.

SPECIAL PARKING DISTRICT: A subset of a residential parking district which utilizes
separate parking permits and has stricter parking limitations than the rest of the residential
parking district.

STABLE: An equine boarding facility in which horses, and sometimes other large types of
livestock, are kept. The facility may include, but is not limited to, a barn, riding arena(s) and/or
pasture facilities.

STORAGE FACILITIES, OUTDOOR: The commercial use of a site where equipment,
registered vehicles, inventory, supplies, or other similar items are stored, including a building
with a roof but without walls completely enclosing the building.

STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE: A structure or group of structures with a controlled
access and fenced compound that contains individual, compartmentalized, or controlled units
that are leased or sold to store material (including, but not limited to, goods, wares, merchandise,
or vehicles) and may include an area of outdoor storage for vehicles and equipment. As a part of
this use, a dwelling unitor caretaker’s unit, which may include an office, shall be permitted for a
person or persons hired to manage the property.

STREET FRONTAGE: The distance measured along the property line, which fronts upon a
street or alley or other principal thoroughfare that provides vehicular access to a property.

STROBE LIGHT: An attention getting device that emits a repetitive light; independent of, or as
part of a sign. For the purposes of this code, strobe light shall not be considered an animated
sign.

                                                 53
SUBDIVISION: A. The division of a lot or parcel of land, into two (2) or more lots for the
purpose of conveyance of ownership or for building development; and the recorded plat thereof;
or

B. The platting of one lot or parcel for the purposes of remedying a prior illegal division of
property or as deemed appropriate by the administrator and/or city engineer.
SWIMMING POOL COMMERCIAL/PUBLIC: An artificial pool of water intended for
recreation by human beings, including all pertinent equipment. This includes a public or private
facility that charges a fee to use the pool and the pool meets all health requirements.

TELEVISION STATION: A facility that broadcasts audio and video over the airwaves, which is
properly licensed. This does not include the transmission tower.

TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS: A "manufactured home" as herein defined, permitted as a
temporary dwelling for a member of the immediate family on the same property as the principal
permitted use. May also be considered as a temporary living use in an existing dwelling while a
new dwelling is being constructed on the same property, provided that once a new dwelling is
completed and prior to an occupancy permit, the temporary livings quarters is removed.

TEMPORARY USE: The use of a site on a seasonal basis and for a short period of time. The use
includes, but is not limited to, Christmas tree lots, construction buildings, firework stands, food
service vehicles, model homes, produce stands, snow cone stands, and pumpkin stands.

TERMINAL, FREIGHT OR TRUCK: The use of a site where freight brought by truck or rail is
transferred. The use may include the storage or repair of trucks or railcars. The use excludes the
long term or permanent storage of freight.

TRANSITIONAL LOT OR PROPERTY: The size of a new residential lot when being proposed
adjacent to an established residential use. The ratio for lots adjacent to properties shall be
determined on a case-by-case basis, when considering the size of the development potential for
the existing use. This shall not be required if separated by an existing roadway or large canal
where the distance between new structures and existing structures equal or exceed 100 feet.

TOWER, LATTICE: A tower made of an open metal framework consisting of strips of metal
overlapped in a pattern to achieve strength and height.

TRAILER: A vehicle without motor power designed for carrying persons or property on its own
structure and to be drawn by a vehicle with motor power. The term "trailer" shall include coach,
boat trailer, semitrailer, travel trailer, or utility trailer.

TREES, CLASS I, II, III: The classes of trees are defined for the purposes of this title by the
“Tree Guide” as provided by Boise City and the 2018 Treasure Valley Tree Selection Guide (or
most recent version). In general, class I trees are smaller ornamental trees, class II trees are
medium/large trees appropriate for street tree planting, and class III trees are very large trees.

TRUCK: A motor vehicle exceeding eight thousand (8,000) pounds' gross weight designed, used

                                                54
or maintained primarily for the transportation of commercial property.

TRUCK STOP: An establishment that sells and supplies motor fuel, lubricating oils, tires, and/or
grease to on premises trade, primarily to trucking industry. This use may also include accessory
vehicle repair shops, vehicle washing facilities, convenience store and/or restaurant.

TURF FARM: A property for agricultural use that is five (5) acres in size or greater and is used
for the purpose of growing turf.

UPLIGHTING: Lighting that is directed in such a manner as to shine light rays onto a solid
surface, including a building or sign
USE, CHANGE OF: A change of use shall include, but not be limited to, an expansion,
alteration, or change in occupancy.

UTILITY: Electrical, natural gas, water, wastewater, sewer, telephone, satellite and cable
services and facilities.

VARIANCE: A relief from development standards as allowed by this title and as enabled by
Idaho Code section 67-6516.

VEHICLE: Shall include, but not limited to, automobile, truck, motorcycle, recreational vehicle,
or as otherwise defined in Idaho Code section 49-123 which includes every device in, upon, or
by which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn (e.g., travel trailers) upon a
public highway, excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks. This shall include electric scooters.

VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL: Any currently licensed and operable motor vehicle, as defined by
Idaho Code section 49-123.

VEHICLE EMISSION TESTING: A mobile or stationary area where vehicle emissions testing is
performed as required by the state of Idaho (see also definition of Temporary Use).

VEHICLE IMPOUND YARD: The use of a site for the temporary storage of vehicles to be
claimed by the owners. Shall not be used as a vehicle repair or wrecking yard.
VEHICLE, INOPERABLE: A vehicle that cannot move under its own power or does not meet
the minimum legal requirements necessary for the motor vehicle to be operated in a safe and
lawful manner upon the roadways and highways in the state of Idaho, as set forth in Idaho Code
title 49.

VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR: The use of a site for major vehicle rebuilding or reconditioning.
The use includes engine rebuilding; major reconditioning of worn or damaged motor vehicles;
and collision service, including body, frame, or fender straightening or repair.

VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR: The use of a site for minor vehicle maintenance and repair. The
use includes vehicle repair garages, muffler shops, tire sales and installations, transmission
shops, and wheel and brake shops.

                                               55
VEHICLE SALES OR RENTAL AND SERVICE: The sale, trade, or lease of new or used
vehicles in operating condition and any repair work or minor service. Repair work or minor
service shall include, but not be limited to, replacement of parts (e.g., tires, shocks, brakes,
mufflers, windshields, radiators, upholstery), oil change, minor engine repair, tune up, and
accessory sales of replacement parts. Any operation specified under the definition of "vehicle
repair, major" is excluded.

VEHICLE WASHING FACILITY: The use of a site where a vehicle may be washed, waxed,
detailed, or vacuumed by the owner of the vehicle or employees on the site.
VEHICLE WRECKING YARD/JUNKYARD/SALVAGE YARD: Any area, lot, land, or parcel
where two (2) or more vehicles without current registration or two (2) or more inoperable or
dismantled vehicles that are not in operating condition (or parts thereof) are stored, dumped,
dismantled, partially dismantled or wrecked; or as defined by Idaho Code section 40-111, the use
of a site that is maintained, operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for
the maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, garbage dumps and sanitary fills. The
following uses are excluded from this definition: agricultural equipment on a "farm" as herein
defined and vehicles stored or dismantled within a completely enclosed structure.

Property whereupon junk, waste, vehicles, discarded or salvaged materials/parts are primarily
stripped of parts in preparation for future storage, destruction, or rebuilding. This connotates that
vehicles within such areas are inoperable either physically and/or legally (i.e., licensed and
registered). While, expectedly, storage of items will occur by nature of this kind of use, this use
classification/definition does not expect that such will become the primary activity conducted
from the site. Specific examples of such uses include, but are not limited to, the following:
automobile wrecking yards.

VETERINARY OFFICE: See definition of Animal Care Facility.

VICINITY MAP: A drawing which sets forth by dimensions or other means the relationship of
the proposed developments to other nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities
and services within the general area in order to better locate and orient the subject property.

VINEYARD: A property in agriculture that is five (5) acres in size or greater, used for the
purpose of growing and cultivating grapevines. See also wineries.

VISION TRIANGLE: The boundaries of an area at the intersection of: a) two (2) public streets;
b) the intersection of a public street and driveway; c) the intersection of a public street and alley;
or d) at the crossing of a railroad over a street, where visual observations are limited and
specified by this title for the purpose of protecting public health and safety. This shall be defined
by the highway authority having jurisdiction.

WALKWAY: A public way for nonvehicular use only, whether or not along the side of a road.
WALL AREA: The total square footage of an exterior wall and determined by multiplying the
total linear elevation of the building (or the leased portion thereof) by the distance from the
roofline to pedestrian grade.

                                                  56
WAREHOUSE AND STORAGE: A structure used primarily for storing materials and/or freight,
including, but not limited to, goods, wares, merchandise, or vehicles.

WATER AMENITY: Any body of water either natural or manmade, which either exists or is
proposed to be improved as a part of the development, in which its banks in all places adjacent to
and located on said development are no steeper than one foot (1') vertical per every four feet (4')
horizontally (1:4) and which has a depth and velocity in all places adjacent to and located on said
development such that the product of the maximum depth (feet) multiplied by the peak velocity
(feet per second) does not exceed four (4).
WHOLESALE SALES: The use of a site for selling, distributing, or brokering merchandise to
retailers, business users, or other wholesalers. This use can include incidental retail sales to the
general public.

WINERY: The use of a site that manufactures alcoholic beverages from the fermented juice of
grapes, fruits or other liquid bearing plants. The use may include the ancillary sale or dispensing
of beverages by the drink or glass and including retail sales to the general public. See also
vineyard.

WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: A steel monopole, guywire tower, lattice tower
or other similar structure designed to support directional antennas, parabolic dishes or antennas,
microwave dishes, in addition to associated ground equipment and other similar equipment used
in the wireless communications industry.

WOODWORKING SHOP: An establishment where wood is modified into finished product to be
sold.

YARD, FRONT: A yard extending between the side lot lines across the front of a lot and from
the front lot line to the front of the principal building.

YARD, REAR: An area extending across the full width of the property and lying between the
rear property line and the nearest line of the principal structure. See figure 8-1E-2.

YARD, REQUIRED: An area that extends along a property line to a depth or width specified in
the setback regulations for the district in which the property is located. See figure 8-1E-2.

YARD, SIDE: An area extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the side property
line and the nearest line of the principal structure. See figure 8-1E-2.

YARD, STREET: An area extending across the full width of the property and lying between the
front property line and the nearest line of a principal structure. See figure 8-1E-2.

YARD SALE: The sale of household or personal articles (as furniture, tools, or clothing) held on
the seller's own premises. Yard sales are limited to one sale per month, lasting no longer than
three (3) days. Yard sales are not commercial activities.


                                                57
8-1E-2: FIGURE - SETBACKS, REQUIRED YARDS AND PROPERTY TYPE




                                  58
                                           CHAPTER 2

                 NONCONFORMING PROPERTY, USE OR STRUCTURE

8-2-1: PURPOSE:
8-2-2: APPLICABILITY:
8-2-3: NONCONFORMING PROPERTY:
8-2-4: NONCONFORMING USE:
8-2-5: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE:
8-2-6: VIOLATIONS:

8-2-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this article is to allow any nonconforming property, use, or structure that lawfully
existed prior to the effective date (December 12, 1997) to continue until they are removed, but
not to encourage their continuation. It is further the intent of this article that nonconforming uses
or structures shall not expand or extend the nonconforming aspect of the property, use, or
structure, unless approved subject to a conditional use permit as set forth in this title.

8-2-2: APPLICABILITY:

These regulations shall apply to any lawfully existing nonconforming property, use, or structure
in any district, except: in the event that a property, use, or structure that was deemed
nonconforming under past regulations now complies with the standards of this title, such
property, use, or structure shall be deemed conforming.

8-2-3: NONCONFORMING PROPERTY:

A. The nonconforming property shall not be diminished in size.

B. Any property reduced by governmental action that reduces an existing conforming parcel
below the required property size shall be deemed as a conforming property for the purpose of
development. To be deemed a conforming property, the owner or applicant shall submit
documents to the administrator proving the following:
1. The property was in compliance with the minimum property size requirement of the applicable
district prior to the decrease in property size; and
2. The decrease in property was caused by acquisition through prescription, purchase, or other
means by the transportation authority, a utility company or corporation under the jurisdiction of
the Idaho public utilities commission, or other local, state, or federal agency.

8-2-4: NONCONFORMING USE:


                                                 59
A. The nonconforming use may continue as long as the use remains lawful and is not expanded
or extended, subject to the following provisions:
1. Alteration: No existing structure containing a nonconforming use may be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except: a) through the approval of a
conditional use permit in accord with the procedures set forth in this title; or b) where the use of
the structure is changed to a conforming use.
2. Extension: A nonconforming use may be extended to occupy additional land area only through
the approval of a conditional use permit in accord with the procedures set forth in this title.

B. If a nonconforming use has ceased for twelve (12) consecutive months or has been replaced
with a conforming use, the nonconforming use shall be deemed abandoned and shall not be
reestablished.

C. A nonconforming use or structure housing a nonconforming use that is damaged more than
fifty percent (50%) of its current assessed taxable value by fire, flood, explosion, wind,
earthquake, war, riot, calamity, or other catastrophic event, shall comply with this title upon
reconstruction. If the damage to the nonconforming use or structure housing the nonconforming
use is fifty percent (50%) or less of its current assessed taxable value, the nonconforming use
may continue, provided that the nonconforming use commences within twelve (12) months of
the event.

8-2-5: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE:

A. Nonconforming structures may be enlarged, repaired or modified, with approval of a
conditional use permit, provided that the additions or modifications to the structure conform to
the requirements of this title.

B. A nonconforming structure that is damaged more than fifty percent (50%) of its current
assessed taxable value by fire, flood, explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot, calamity, or other
catastrophic event, shall comply with this title upon restoration or reconstruction. If the damage
to the nonconforming structure is fifty percent (50%) or less of its current assessed taxable value,
the structure may be restored or reconstructed, provided that restoration or reconstruction
commences within twelve (12) months of the event.

C. Structures listed on the national register of historic places shall be exempt from the
regulations of this section.

8-2-6: VIOLATIONS:

Properties, uses, or structures that were in violation of previous land use regulations and that
remain a violation under this title shall be considered continuing violations.




                                                 60
                                           CHAPTER 3

                              ZONING DISTRICT STANDARDS

                                            ARTICLE A

                                  DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED

8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSES ESTABLISHED:
8-3A-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
8-3A-3: USES WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS:
8-3A-4: ZONING DISTRICT DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:

8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSE ESTABLISHED:

The following zoning districts are hereby established. For the interpretation of this title, the
zoning districts have been formulated to realize the general purposes as set forth in this title. In
addition, the specific purpose of each zoning district shall be as follows:

(A) AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT: To provide for agricultural use with parcels that are 5 acres
or larger in size. May include active agriculture, viticulture, equestrian, and residential. Uses
include native open space and active farmland. The agricultural land use is not amenity based
(sewer, water, schools) and will usually be located away from goods and services. These areas
encourage the keeping and raising of crops and/or animals and do not necessarily include
manicured yards, sidewalks, bike paths, streetlights or planned park and recreation facilities.
Density may be limited due to the limited availability of infrastructure. Wells and septic systems
should be permitted for lots in this land use designation if approved by the applicable Health
Department. Easements of at least 20-feet in width shall be provided where determined necessary
for the future extension of water and sewer mains. Modified street sections and a reduction in
light pollution (by reducing or eliminating lighting standards) may be offered for a more rural
feel. Private streets may be permitted in this district for access to newly subdivided or split
property. This district does allow for some commercial uses as specified in 8-3A-3.

(RR) RURAL-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: To provide for rural single-family residential use
adjacent to agricultural uses, adjacent to other Rural Residential type uses, and adjacent to BLM
land areas. Parcels are to be two acres minimum. It is the intent of this land use designation to
help to preserve Star’s rural feel. Huge manicured “Rural Residential” lots are discouraged and
therefore manicured home site areas on these properties should not exceed 1/2 acre. Uses may
include active agriculture, viticulture, equestrian, and residential. Uses include native open space
and small-scale active farmland. The Rural Residential land use is not amenity based (sewer,
water, schools) and will usually be located away from goods and services. These areas encourage
the keeping and raising of small-scale crops and/or animals and do not necessarily include

                                                  61
manicured yards, sidewalks, bike paths, streetlights or planned park and recreation facilities.
Density may be further limited due to the limited availability of infrastructure. Modified street
sections and a reduction in light pollution (by reducing or eliminating lighting standards) may be
offered for a more rural feel. Private streets may be permitted in this district for access to newly
subdivided or split property. This land use designation is to be located such that it does not block
extension of urban services at reasonable costs. Wells and septic systems should be permitted
for lots in this land use designation if approved by the applicable Health Department. Easements
of at least 20-feet in width shall be provided where determined necessary for the future extension
of water and sewer mains. This district does allow for some commercial uses as specified in 8-
3A-3.

(R) RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: To provide regulations and districts for various residential
neighborhoods. Gross density in a Residential (R) district shall be determined according to the
numeral following the R. The numeral designates the maximum number of dwelling units per
acre. In zoning designations of R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5, housing shall be single family
detached unless approved with a PUD or development agreement. Connection to municipal
water and sewer facilities are required for all subdivision and lot split applications submitted
after the effective date hereof in all districts exceeding one dwelling unit per acre. Wells and
septic systems may be permitted for larger lots in this land use designation that are not adjacent
to municipal services, as determined by the Sewer District, and if approved by the applicable
Health Department. Private streets may be approved in this district for access to newly
subdivided or split property. This district does allow for some non-residential uses as specified in
8-3A-3.

(RC) RIVERFRONT CENTER: To provide for a mixture of uses which may, at the sole
discretion of the Council, include office, small-scale retail, restaurants, offices, entertainment,
and high-density residential within the comprehensive plan area designated as Riverfront Center.
The Riverfront Center is planned to be a vibrant mixed-use center for the community that builds
off River access and connection north to Main Street, the Riverwalk Park, and the River House.
High density housing is encouraged on the upper floors of buildings and at the fringes of the land
use designation. The focus of the Riverfront Center is a large-scale community civic space and
gathering area at the Boise River edge. Development within this zone is to proceed through the
PUD process unless a development agreement has already been executed for the particular
property. This zone may allow the development community to be more innovative in design and
placement of structures subject to Council review and approval. Rezoning within this land use
designation is to be strictly monitored by the city to assure that the Riverfront Center is not being
used simply to justify high density residential use. High-density residential uses should be part of
the Riverfront Center though may not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the overall size of the
development.

(CBD) CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT: To provide for commercial, retail, civic, office, and
entertainment uses within the downtown area of the city along the major transportation corridors.
Residential uses, including higher densities may be allowed on the upper floors of multiple use
buildings and may also be allowed at the fringes of the land use designation shown on the
comprehensive plan. Live/work designed development is also encouraged in this district.
Developments in this district are to place an emphasis on pedestrian and bicycle access and

                                                 62
compatibility. Special emphasis consideration shall may be placed given on to new development
that incorporates and compliments the specifically designated downtown visioning sub-districts
in the central downtown area to that encourages and creates a vibrant, walkable downtown
community that incorporates the entire central business district that emphasizes the Boise River,
parks, open space and community pathways, and public (civic) facilities as an active amenityies.
Residential uses, including higher densities may be allowed on the upper floors of multiple use
buildings and may also be allowed at the fringes of the land use designation shown on the
comprehensive plan. Live/work designed development is also encouraged in this district.

(CBD-V) CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT VISIONING PLAN AREA: To provide for certain
commercial, retail, civic, office, and entertainment uses within specific, defined sub-districts.
These sub-districts include the State Street Corridor District, Star Road Corridor District, Village
District, Arts District and River District. Special emphasis shall be placed on development in the
central downtown area to encourage and create a vibrant, walkable downtown community that
brings transition and compatibility between existing residential and commercial uses with the
newly approved uses while incorporating the Boise River as an active amenity. New residential
uses may be allowed on the upper floors of multiple-use buildings, as approved by Council.
Live/work designed development is also encouraged in these districts. Developments in this
district are to place an emphasis on pedestrian and bicycle access and compatibility. Drive-thru
restaurants and other incompatible land uses to the existing commercial and residential uses are
to be further regulated in the downtown visioning plan area.

(C-1) NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: To provide for the establishment of
convenience business uses which tend to meet the daily needs of the residents of an immediate
neighborhood while establishing development standards that prevent adverse effects on
residential uses adjoining a C-1 district. Such districts are typically appropriate for small
shopping clusters or integrated shopping centers located within residential neighborhoods, where
compatible.

(C-2) GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: To provide for the establishment of areas for
commercial uses allowed in other commercial zones and commercial uses which are more
intensive than those permitted in other commercial zones, and typically located adjacent to
arterial roadways and not immediately adjacent to residential, including the establishment of
areas for travel related services such as hotels, motels, service stations, drive-in restaurants,
offices, limited warehousing, commercial services and retail sales.

(LO) LIMITED OFFICE DISTRICT: To provide for the establishment of groupings of
professional, research, executive, administrative, accounting, clerical, limited commercial and
similar uses. Development shall not be traffic intensive and research facilities shall not involve
heavy testing operations of any kind. The L-O district is designed to act as a buffer between
other more intense nonresidential uses and residential uses and is thus a transitional use.

(LI) LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT: To provide for manufacturing, warehousing, mini‐
storage and open storage, multi‐tenant industrial park, contractors yards, and similar uses.
Limited office and commercial uses may be permitted as ancillary uses. All development within
this land use shall be free of hazardous or objectionable elements such as excessive noise, odor,

                                                 63
dust, smoke, or glare.

(PS) PUBLIC/SEMIPUBLIC: To provide for the development of such uses as golf courses,
parks, recreation facilities, greenways, schools, cemeteries, and public service facilities such as
government offices and utilities. All development within this land use is encouraged to be
designed to accommodate the different needs, interests, and age levels of residents in matters
concerning both recreation and civil activities.

(MU) MIXED-USE DISTRICT: To provide for a mixture of uses which may, at the sole
discretion of the Council, include office, commercial, and/or residential depending upon the
specific comprehensive plan area designated as Mixed Use. Development within this zone is to
proceed through the PUD process unless a development agreement has already been executed for
the particular property. Identifying areas for mixed-use development has two objectives. The first
objective is to give the city a better tool to manage the type of developments through the planned
unit development and/or the Development Agreement process. The second objective is that this
zone may allow the development community to be more innovative in design and placement of
structures subject to Council review and approval. Rezoning within this land use designation is
to be strictly monitored by the city to assure that the Mixed-Use areas are not being used simply
to justify high density residential use. Residential uses may be part of an overall mixed-use
development that includes a non-residential component and may not exceed 30% of the overall
size of the development.

(PUD) PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: This designation, following any zoning designation
noted on the official zoning map of the city (i.e., R-4-PUD), indicates that the development was
approved by the city as a planned unit development, with specific allowances and design
approved by Council.

(DA) DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: This designation, following any zoning designation
noted on the official zoning map of the city (i.e., C-2-DA), indicates that the zoning was
approved by the city with a development agreement, with specific conditions of zoning.

8-3A-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:

The boundaries of the districts are shown on the official zoning map of the city of Star. The
official zoning map is made a part of this title, as well as such other map or maps that are duly
adopted. Said official zoning maps properly attested, shall be placed and remain on file in the
office of the Star city clerk.

8-3A-3: USES WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS

The following table lists principal permitted (P), accessory uses (A), conditional (C), or
prohibited (N) uses.

A. Permitted uses and accessory uses shall be reviewed in accord with this title. It shall be
unlawful and a violation of this title for any person to conduct any permitted use in any district,
unless such person first obtains each applicable permit from the city.

                                                 64
B. Uses that are listed as C shall be subject to a conditional use permit approval through the
public hearing process. Conditional uses shall be approved in accord with the procedures and
regulations for conditional uses set forth in this title. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this
title for any person to conduct any conditional use in any district, unless such person shall first
obtain a conditional use permit approval through the public hearing process from the city.

C. The administrator shall interpret the appropriate district for land uses not specifically
mentioned by determining the district in which similar uses are permitted. If the administrator
determines that a proposed use is not specifically mentioned and is not similar to any specifically
mentioned use the administrator shall determine that the use is prohibited.

D. When submitting a CUP, PUD or development agreement for a mixed-use zone, or for
multiple conditional uses on one site, all uses that are contemplated for the development shall be
identified with the application and shall be reviewed by the council to determine which may be
permitted, which should remain as conditional uses and which should be prohibited. A
development agreement may be used in lieu of a conditional use permit application or a PUD
application if the council makes the findings as otherwise required.

E. In zoning designations of R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5, housing shall be single family detached
unless approved with a PUD or development agreement in lieu of a PUD.

F. As of the adoption of this ordinance the Rural transitional district zone (RT) has been
eliminated for new zoning. Properties with a Rural transitional zoning designation (RT) on the
effective date of this ordinance shall be considered nonconforming use properties subject to the
nonconforming use regulations herein and shall automatically revert to Rural Residential (RR)
for the purpose of zoning until a time that they are rezoned to a district that meets the adopted
Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map.




                                                   65
ZONING DISTRICT USES
USES                                    A   RR     R      CBD   C-1 C-2   LO LI   PS MU     RC
Accessory structure - Residential or    A/C A/C    A/C   N/C    A   A     A  A    A  C/P     A
Commercial
Adult business/adult entertainment      N   N      N     N      N   N     N   C   N   N     N
Agriculture, forestry, fishing          P   P      N     N      N   N     N   N   N   N     N
Airport                                 C   N      N     N      N   N     N   C   N   N     N
Animal care facility 1                  P   C      N     C      P   P     P   P   N   C     N
Artist studio 1                         P   P      N     P      P   P     P   P   P   P     P
Art, entertainment, recreation          C   N      N     P      C   P     P   C   P   C     P
facility1
Arts, Performing Theaters               N   N      N            N   C     N   C   C   C     C
Asphalt plant 1                         N   N      N     N      N   N     N   C   N   N     N
Auction facility                        N   N      N     N      N   C     N   C   N   C     N
Automated Teller Machine (ATM) 1        N   N      N     A      A   A     A   A   A   A     A
Automotive hobby 1                      A   A      A     N      N   N     N   A   N   A     N
Automotive mechanical/electrical        N   N      N     C      C   P     N   P   N   C     N
repair and maintenance
Bakery- Retail or Manufacturing         N   N      N     P      P   P     P   P   N   P/C   P
Bar/tavern/lounge/drinking              N   N      N     P      C   P     C   C   N   C     P
establishment
Barbershop/styling salon                N   N      N     P      P   P     P   N   N   P     P
Bed and breakfast                       P   P      N     P      P   P     N   N   N   C     C
Beverage bottling plant                 N   N      N     N      N   N     N   P   N   N     N
Boarding house                          C   C      C     N      N   N     N   N   N   C     C
Brewery/Distillery                      N   N      N     P      C   P     N   P   N   C     P
Brewpub/Wine Tasting                    A   A      N     P      C   P     C   C   N   C     P
Building material, garden equipment     N   N      N     P      C   P     C   P   N   C     C
and supplies
Campground/RV park 1                    C   N      N     N      N   N     N   N   N   C     N
Caretaker Unit 1                        A   A      A     N      A   A     N   N   A   A     A
Cement or clay products                 N   N      N     N      N   N     N   P   N   N     N
manufacturing
Cemetery 1                              C   C      N     N      N   N     N   N   P   N      N
Chemical manufacturing plant 1          N   N      N     N      N   N     N   C   N   N      N
Child Care center (more than 12) 1      N   C      N     C      C   C     C   N   N   C      N
Child Care family (6 or fewer) 1        A   A      A     A      A   A     A   N   N   A      C
Child Care group (7-12) 1               C   C      C     C      C   C     C   N   N   C      C
Child Care-Preschool/Early Learning1    N   C      C     C      C   C     C   N   N   C      C
Church or place of religious worship1   C   C      C     C      C   C     C   N   N   C      N
Civic, social/fraternal organizations   C   N      N     P      P   P     P   N   N   C     C


                                                  66
                                        A   RR    R   CBD   C-1   C-2   LO   LI   PS   MU   RC
Concrete batch plant 1                  N   N     N   N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Conference/convention center            N   N     N   P     P     P     P    C    C    C     C
Contractor's yard or shop 1             C   C     N   N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Convenience store                       N   N     N   C     C     C     C    C    N    C     C
Dairy farm                              C   N     N   N     N     N     N    N    N    N     N
Drive-through establishment/drive-up    N   N     N   N/C   C     C     C    C    N    C     N
service window 1
Dwelling:
 Multi-family 1                         N   N     C   N     N     N     N    N    N    C    C
 Secondary Accessory (ADU) 1            A   A     A   N     N     N     N    N    N    C    C
 Single-family attached                 N   N     P   N     N     N     N    N    N    C    N
 Single-family detached                 P   P     P   N     N     N     N    N    N    C    N
 Two-family duplex 1                    N   N     P   N     N     N     N    N    N    C    N
 Live/Work Multi-Use 1                  N   N     N   C     N     N     N    N    N    C    C
 Single-Family Rental Communities 1     N   N     C         N     N     N    N    N    C    C
Educational institution, private        C   C     C   C     C     C     C    N    N    C    C
Educational institution, public         C   C     C   C     C     C     C    N    C    C    C
Equipment rental, sales, and services   N   N     N   C     C     P     N    P    N    C    N
Events/Entertainment Facility, public   C   C     N   C     C     C     N    C    C    C    C
or private (indoor/outdoor) 1
Fabrication shop                        N   N     N   N     N     PC    N    P    N    N    N
Farm                                    P   P     N   N     N     N     N    N    N    N    N
Farmers' or Saturday market             C   C     N   C     C     C     C    C    C    C    P
Feedlot                                 N   N     N   N     N     N     N    N    N    N    N
Financial institution                   N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    C    C
Flammable substance storage             N   N     N   N     N     N     N    C    N    N    N
Flex Space                              N   N     N   C     C     P     C    P    N    C    N
Food products processing                C   N     N   N     C     C     N    P    N    N    N
Fracking                                N   N     N   N     N     N     N    N    N    N    N
Gasoline, Fueling & Charging station    N   N     N   C     C     C     C    C    N    C    N
with or without convenience store 1
Golf course/Driving Range               C   C     C   N     C     C     C    C    C    C    N
Government office                       N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    P    C    P
Greenhouse, private                     A   A     A   N     N     N     N    N    N    A    N
Greenhouse, commercial                  P   C     N   N     C     P     N    P    N    C    N
Guesthouse/granny flat                  P   P     C   N     N     N     N    N    N    C    C



                                                 67
                                         A   RR    R   CBD   C-1   C-2   LO   LI   PS   MU   RC
Health and Fitness Clubs 1               N   N     N   C     C     C     C    C    N    C     C
Healthcare and social services           N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    C     C
Heliport                                 C   N     N   N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Home occupation 1                        A   A     A   A     N     N     N    N    N    A     P
Hospital                                 N   N     N   P     C     P     P    C    N    C     N
Hotel/motel                              N   N     N   C     C     P     N    C    N    C     C
Ice manufacturing plant                  N   N     N   N     N     N     N    P    N    N     N
Institution                              N   N     N   C     C     C     N    N    C    C     C
Junkyard                                 N   N     N   N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Kennel                                   C   C     N   N     N     C     N    C    N    C     N
Laboratory                               N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    C     N
Laboratory, medical                      N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    C     N
Laundromat                               N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    P     C
Laundry and dry cleaning                 N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    C     C
Library                                  N   N     N   P     P     P     P    N    P    N     C
Manufactured home 1                      P   P     P   N     N     N     N    N    N    C     N
Manufactured home park 1                 N   N     C   N     N     N     N    N    N    N     N
Manufacturing plant                      N   N     N   N     N     C     N    C    N    N     N
Meatpacking plant                        C   N     N   N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Medical clinic                           N   N     N   P     P     P     P    N    N    P     P
Mining, Pit or Quarry (excluding         C   N     N   N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
accessory pit) 1
Mining, Pit or Quarry (for accessory     A   A     A   A     A     A     A    A    A    A    N
pit) 1
Mortuary                                 N   N     N   N     C     P     N    P    N    C    N
Multiple Use Building 1                  N   N     N   C     C     C     C    C    N    C    C
Museum                                   C   N     N   P     P     P     P    N    P    P    P
Nursery, garden center and farm          N   N     N   C     P     P     P    P    N    C    N
supply
Nursing or residential care facility 1   N   N     C   C     P     P     P    N    N    C    C
Office security facility                 N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    C    N
Parking lot/parking garage               N   N     N   C     C     C     C    C    C    C    P
(commercial)
Parks, public and private                P   P     P   P     P     P     P    P    P    P    P
Pawnshop                                 N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    P    N
Personal and professional services       N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    P    P
Pharmacy                                 N   N     N   P     P     P     P    P    N    P    P


                                                  68
                                        A     RR     R     CBD   C-1   C-2   LO   LI   PS   MU RC
Photographic studio                     N     N      N     P     P     P     P    P    Nd   P   P
Portable classroom/modular building     P     P      P     P     P     P     P    N    P    P   N
(for private & public Educational
Institutions) 1
Power plant                             N     N      N     N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Processing plant                        C     N      N     N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Professional offices                    N     N      N     P     P     P     P    P    N    C     P
Public infrastructure; Public utility   C     C      C     C     C     C     C    C    C    C     N
major, minor and yard 1
Public Utility Yard                     C     N      N     N     C     C     N    P    C    N     N
Recreational vehicle dump station       N     N      N     N     C     C     N    C    N    A     N
Recycling center                        N     N      N     N     C     C     N    P    N    N     N
Research activities                     A     N      N     P     P     P     P    P    N    C     C
Restaurant                              N     N      N     P     C     P     P    C    N    C     P
Retail store/retail services            N     N      N     P     C     P     P    P    N    C     P
Retirement home                         N     N      C     C     C     N     C    N    N    C     C
Riding Arena or Stable, Private/        P/C   P/C    C/N   N     N     N     N    N    N    N     N
Commercial
Salvage yard                            N     N      N     N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Sand and gravel yard                    C     N      N     N     N     N     N    P    N    N     N
Service building                        C     N      N     P     P     P     N    P    N    C     N
Shooting range (Indoor/Outdoor)         C     N      N     C/N   C/N   C/N   N    C    N    C/N   N
Shopping or Commercial center           N     N      N     C     C     C     N    N    N    C     N
Short Term Rentals 1                    A     A      A     A     N     N     N    N    N    A     A
Solid waste transfer station            N     N      N     N     N     N     N    C    N    N     N
Storage facility, outdoor               C     N      N     N     C     C     N    C    N    C     N
(commercial)1
Storage facility, self-service          C     N      N     N     C     C     N    C    N    C     N
(commercial)1
Swimming pool, commercial/public        N     N      N     P     P     P     P    P    P    P     C
Television station                      N     N      N     N     N     C     N    C    N    C     C
Temporary living quarters 1             P     P      C     N     N     N     N    N    N    N     N
Terminal, freight or truck 1            N     N      N     N     N     C     N    P    N    N     N
Truck stop                              N     N      N     N     N     C     N    P    N    C     N
Turf farm                               P     P      N     N     N     N     N    N    C    N     N
Vehicle emission testing 1              N     N      N     P     P     P     P    P    N    C     N
Vehicle impound yard 1                  N     N      N     N     N     N     N    P    N    N     N


                                                    69
                                         A   RR        R    CBD   C-1   C-2   LO   LI   PS   MU   RC
Vehicle repair, major 1                 N    N     N       N      C     P     N    P    N    C     N
Vehicle repair, minor 1                 N    N     N       C      C     P     N    P    N    C     N
Vehicle sales or rental and service 1   N    N     N       C      C     P     N    P    N    C     N
Vehicle washing facility 1              N    N     N       C      C     P     N    P    N    C     N
Vehicle wrecking, junk or salvage       N    N     N       N      N     N     N    C    N    N     N
yard1
Veterinarian office                     P    C     N       C      P     P     P    P    N    C    P
Vineyard                                P    P     N       N      N     N     N    C    N    C    N
Warehouse and storage                   N    N     N       N      N     P     C    P    N    C    N
Wholesale sales                         N    N     N       C      P     P     C    P    N    C    N
Winery                                  P    C     N       N      N     C     N    P    N    C    P
Wireless communication facility 1       C    C     C       C      C     C     C    C    C    C    N
Woodworking shop                        N    N     N       N      N     P     N    P    N    N    P




                                                  70
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT/
VISIONING AREA ZONING USES                                                CBD(SS)   CBD(SR)
                                               CBD(V)   CBD(A)   CBD(R)    STATE     STAR
USES                                    CBD   VILLAGE    ART     RIVER    STREET     ROAD
Accessory structure - Residential or     A       A        A        A         A         A
Commercial
Adult business/adult entertainment      N          N      N        N        N         N
Agriculture, forestry, fishing          N          N      N        N        N         N
Airport                                 N          N      N        N        N         N
Animal care facility 1                  C          C      C        C        C         C
Artist studio 1                         P          P      P        P        P         P
Arts, entertainment, recreation         C          N      N        N        C         C
facility1
Arts, Performing Theaters               C          C      C        C        C         C
Asphalt plant 1                         N          N      N        N        N         N
Auction facility                        N          N      N        N        N         N
Automated Teller Machine (ATM) 1        A          N      N        N        N         N
Automotive hobby 1                      N          N      N        N        N         N
Automotive mechanical/electrical        N          N      N        N        N         N
repair and maintenance
Bakery- Retail or Manufacturing          P         P      P        P        P         P
Bar/tavern/lounge/drinking               C         N      N        N        N         N
establishment
Barbershop/styling salon                P          P      P        P        P         P
Bed and breakfast                       P          P      P        P        P         P
Beverage bottling plant                 N          N      N        N        N         N
Boarding house                          N          N      N        N        N         N
Brewery/Distillery                      C          C      C        C        C         C
Brewpub/Wine Tasting                    C          C      C        C        C         C
Building material, garden equipment     C          N      N        N        N         N
and supplies
Campground/RV park 1                    N          N      N        N        N         N
Caretaker Unit 1                        N          N      N        N        N         N
Cement or clay products                 N          N      N        N        N         N
manufacturing
Cemetery 1                              N          N      N        N        N         N
Chemical manufacturing plant 1          N          N      N        N        N         N
Child Care center (more than 12) 1      C          N      N        N        N         N
Child Care family (6 or fewer) 1        A          A      A        A        N         N
Child Care group (7-12) 1               C          N      N        C        C         C
Child Care-Preschool/Early Learning1    C          N      N        N        C         C
Church or place of religious worship1   N          N      N        N        N         N


                                              71
                                        CBD    CBD(V)   CBD(A)   CBD(R)   CBD(SS)   CBD(SR)
                                              VILLAGE    ART     RIVER     STATE     STAR
                                                                          STREET     ROAD
Civic, social/fraternal organizations   N          N      N        N         N         N
Concrete batch plant 1                  N          N      N        N         N         N
Conference/convention center            N          N      N        N         N         N
Contractor's yard or shop 1             N          N      N        N         N         N
Convenience store                       N          N      N        N         N         N
Dairy farm                              N          N      N        N         N         N
Drive-through establishment/drive-up    N          N      N        N         N         N
service window 1
Dwelling:
  Multi-family 1                        N          N      N        N        N         N
  Accessory (ADU)1                      N          N      N        N        N         N
  Single-family attached                N          N      N        N        N         N
  Single-family detached                N          N      N        N        N         N
  Two-family duplex 1                   N          N      N        N        N         N
  Live/Work Multi-Use 1                 C          C      C        C        C         C
 Single-Family Rental Communities 1     N          N      N        N        N         N
Educational institution, private        C          N      N        N        C         C
Educational institution, public         C          N      N        N        C         C
Equipment rental, sales, and services   C          N      N        N        N         N
Events Facility, public or private      C          N      N        N        N         N
(indoor/outdoor) 1
Fabrication shop                        N          N      N        N        N         N
Farm                                    N          N      N        N        N         N
Farmers' or Saturday market             C          C      C        C        C         C
Feedlot                                 N          N      N        N        N         N
Financial institution, no drive thru    P          P      P        P        P         P
Flammable substance storage             N          N      N        N        N         N
Flex Space                              C          N      N        N        C         C
Food products processing                N          N      N        N        N         N
Fracking                                N          N      N        N        N         N
Gasoline, Fueling & Charging station    N          N      N        N        N         N
with or without convenience store 1
Golf course/Driving Range               N          N      N        N        N         N
Government office                       P          P      C        P        P         P
Greenhouse, private                     N          N      A        N        N         N


                                              72
                                         CBD    CBD(V)   CBD(A)   CBD(R)   CBD(SS)   CBD(SR)
                                               VILLAGE    ART     RIVER     STATE     STAR
                                                                           STREET     ROAD
Greenhouse, commercial                   C          N      N        N         C         C
Guesthouse/granny flat                   N          N      N        N         N         N
Health and Fitness Clubs 1               C          N      N        N         C         C
Healthcare and social services           P          N      N        P         P         N
Heliport                                 N          N      N        N         N         N
Home occupation 1                        A          A      A        A         A         A
Hospital                                 N          N      N        N         N         N
Hotel/motel                              C          C      C        C         C         C
Ice manufacturing plant                  N          N      N        N         N         N
Junkyard                                 N          N      N        N         N         N
Kennel                                   C          N      N        N         N         N
Laboratory                               C          N      N        N         N         N
Laboratory, medical                      C          N      N        N         N         N
Laundromat                               C          C      C        C         C         C
Laundry and dry cleaning                 C          C      C        C         C         C
Library                                  P          P      P        P         P         P
Manufactured home 1                      N          N      N        N         N         N
Manufactured home park 1                 N          N      N        N         N         N
Manufacturing plant                      N          N      N        N         N         N
Meatpacking plant                        N          N      N        N         N         N
Medical clinic                           P          P      P        P         P         P
Mining, Pit or Quarry (excluding         N          N      N        N         N         N
accessory pit) 1
Mining, Pit or Quarry (for accessory     A          A      N        A        A         A
pit) 1
Mortuary                                 N          N      N        N        N         N
Multiple Use Building 1                  C          C      C        C        C         C
Museum                                   P          P      P        P        P         P
Nursery, garden center and farm          C          N      N        N        N         N
supply
Nursing or residential care facility 1    C         N      N        N        C         C
Office security facility                  P         P      P        P        P         P
Parking lot/parking garage                C         C      C        C        C         C
(commercial)
Parks, public and private                 P         P      P        P        P          P



                                               73
                                        CBD    CBD(V)   CBD(A)   CBD(R)   CBD(SS)   CBD(SR)
                                              VILLAGE    ART     RIVER     STATE     STAR
                                                                          STREET     ROAD
Pawnshop                                C          N      N        N         C         C
Personal and professional services      P          P      P        P         P         P
Pharmacy                                P          P      P        P         P         P
Photographic studio                     P          P      P        P         P         P
Portable classroom/modular building     N          N      N        N         N         N
(for private & public Educational
Institutions) 1
Power plant                             N          N      N        N        N         N
Processing plant                        N          N      N        N        N         N
Professional offices                    P          P      P        P        P         P
Public infrastructure; Public utility   C          N      N        N        C         C
major, minor and yard 1
Public Utility Yard                     C          N      N        N        C         C
Recreational vehicle dump station       N          N      N        N        N         N
Recycling center                        C          N      N        N        C         C
Research activities                     P          N      N        N        P         P
Restaurant                              C          C      C        C        C         C
Retail store/retail services            P          P      P        P        P         P
Retirement home                         C          N      N        N        C         C
Riding Arena or Stable, Private/        N          N      N        N        N         N
Commercial
Salvage yard                             N         N      N        N         N         N
Sand and gravel yard                     N         N      N        N         N         N
Shooting range (Indoor/Outdoor)         C/N        N      N        N        C/N       C/N
Shopping or Commercial center            C         N      N        N         C         C
Short Term Rentals 1                     A         A      A        A         A         A
Solid waste transfer station             N         N      N        N         N         N
Storage facility, outdoor                N         N      N        N         N         N
(commercial)1
Storage facility, self-service          N          N      N        N        N         N
(commercial)1
Swimming pool, commercial/public        C          C      N        C        C         C
Television station                      N          N      N        N        N         N
Temporary living quarters 1             N          N      N        N        N         N
Terminal, freight or truck 1            N          N      N        N        N         N



                                              74
                                               CBD      CBD(V)            CBD(A)      CBD(R)   CBD(SS)   CBD(SR)
                                                       VILLAGE             ART        RIVER     STATE     STAR
                                                                                               STREET     ROAD
Truck stop                                       N          N               N             N       N         N
Turf farm                                        N          N               N             N       N         N
Vehicle emission testing 1                       P          N               N             N       P         P
Vehicle impound yard 1                           N          N               N             N       N         N
Vehicle repair, major 1                          N          N               N             N       N         N
Vehicle repair, minor 1                          N          N               N             N       N         N
Vehicle sales or rental and service 1            N          N               N             N       N         N
Vehicle washing facility 1                       N          N               N             N       N         N
Vehicle wrecking, junk or salvage                N          N               N             N       N         N
yard1
Veterinarian office                              C          C               C             C          C     C
Vineyard                                         N          N               N             N          N     N
Warehouse and storage                            N          N               N             N          N     N
Wholesale sales                                  C          C               C             C          C     C
Winery                                           N          N               N             N          N     N
Wireless communication facility 1                C          C               N             C          C     C
Woodworking shop                                 N          N               N             N          N     N


        Notes:
           1. Indicates uses that are subject to specific use standards in accord with chapter 5 of
               this title.

        8-3A-4: ZONING DISTRICT DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:


                                        Minimum Yard Setbacks
                         Maximum        Note Conditions
                         Height
            Zoning       Note                                                   Interior       Street
            District     Conditions     Front (1)(7)            Rear(7)         Side           Side
            A(6)         50'            30'                     30'             30'            20'
            R-R          35'            30'                     30'             20'            20'
            R-1          35'            30'                     30'             10'            20'
            R-2          35'            20' 15’ to living       20' 15’         10' (2)        20'
                                        area/side load
                                        garage


                                                       75
                         25’ to garage face
R-3         35'          15’ to living        15' 10’        7.5’ (2)         20'
                         area/side load
                         garage
                         20’ 25’to garage
                         face
R-4         35'          15’ to living        15' 10’        7.5’ (2)         20'
                         area/side load
                         garage
                         20’ 25’to garage
                         face


Zoning      Maximum      Minimum Yard Setbacks
District    Height       Note Conditions
            Note
            Conditions                                                      Street
                         Front (1)(7)              Rear(7)      Interior Side Side
R-5         35'          15’ to living        15' 10’        7.5’ (2)         20'
                         area/side load
                         garage
                         20’25’ to garage
                         face
R-6 to R-   35’          15’ to living        15’ 10’        7.5’(2)          20’
11                       area/side load       4’ if alley
detached                 garage               load
housing                  20’25’ to garage
                         10’ if alley load
R-6 to R-   35’          15’ to living        15’10’         0’ for           20’
11                       area/side load       4’ if alley    common
attached                 garage               load           walls
housing                  20’25’ to garage                    7.5’ at end of
                         10’ if alley load                   building
R-12 and    35’          15’ to living        15’ 10’        0’ for          20’
higher                   area/side load       4’ if alley    common
                         garage               load           walls
                         20’25’ to garage                    7.5’ for single
                                                             story
                                                             10’feet for
                                                             multi-story
CBD         35'/60’5     0'                   0'             0' 4             0'



                                        76
     C-1           35'           20'                   5'             0' 4            20'
     C-2           35'/60’5      20'                   5'             0' 4            20'
     LO            35’           20’                   10’            0’ 4            20’
     IL            35’/60’5      20’                   5’             0’ 4            20’
     PS            35’           20’                   10’            0’ 4            20’
     RC            35’           0’                    0’             0’ 4            0’
     MU            35'/60’5      For MU and CBD - Unless otherwise approved by the
                                 Council as a part of a PUD or development agreement, all
                                 residential buildings shall follow the residential setbacks
                                 shown in this table based upon the project density and all
                                 other buildings shall follow setbacks for the C-2 zone (3).


Notes:
1. Front yard setback shall be measured from the face of the garage to the face back of the
   sidewalk or property line, whichever is greater, allowing for 20’ 25’of parking on the
   driveway without overhanging onto the sidewalk. Living area/side load garage front yard
   setback shall be measured from the face of the structure to the back of sidewalk or property
   line, whichever is greater.
2. Zero-Lot-Line, reduced street side yard setbacks and reduced front and rear setback waivers
   may be requested through the Development Agreement process. All other side yard setback
   requests for detached structures shall not be granted waivers, unless approved by Council as
   part of a Planned Unit Development.
3. All setbacks in the CBD, C-1, C-2, LO, LI, PS, RC and M-U zone shall maintain a minimum
   15’ when adjacent to a residential use or zone. A waiver may be requested if the adjacent
   property has the potential to redevelop as a non-residential use in the future.
4. As approved by the Fire District.
5. 35’ height requirement unless a height exception is approved by Council through the
   Conditional Use Permit or Planned Unit Development Process.
6. Agricultural structures shall meet the setback requirements of the RR zone. See additional
   requirement in Section 8-1E-1 Definitions.
7. Front and Rear setback requirements shall be applied to all new residential dwellings within
   newly preliminary platted lots after July 21, 2026.

Note Conditions:

A. Minimum Property Size:
1. Each property shall be of sufficient size to meet the minimum setbacks as established in this
section.
2. Minimum property size shall be determined exclusive of land that is used for the conveyance
of irrigation water, drainage, creek or river flows unless: a) the water is conveyed through pipe or
tile; and b) included as part of a utility easement that generally runs along the property lines.


                                                77
3. When two (2) or more parcels of land, each of which is of inadequate area and dimension to
qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the district in which the parcels are
located, are held in one ownership, they shall be used as one property for such use.

B. Minimum Street Frontage:
1. Properties with street frontages on cul-de-sacs or at approximately a ninety-degree (90°) angle
shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20’) measured as a chord measurement.
2. Street knuckles shall be separated from through traffic by a landscape island. Properties with
frontages on such knuckles shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20’) measured as a chord
measurement.
3. All other properties with street frontage shall have a minimum of thirty feet (35’).

C. Additional Setback Criteria:
1. Chimneys, pop out windows, direct vent gas fireplaces, entertainment centers, window seats
and other projections which do not increase the usable floor area and do not exceed eight feet
(8’) in width may project up to two feet (2’) into any required setback, provided that projections
that are at finished grade, including, but not limited to, chimneys and fireplaces, do not encroach
within a side yard utility easement.
2. One detached accessory building that is less than two hundred (200) square feet in area and
nine feet (9’) or less in height shall be allowed in the required rear yard. In no case shall an
accessory building be allowed in the street yard or the required side yard.
3. Accessory structures, such as decks and patios, which are one foot (1’) or less in height, as
measured from the property’s finished grade, may occupy any yard area.
4. In all residential zones garages and carports opening onto a side street must have a minimum
distance between the opening of such garage or carport and the side street lot line of not less than
twenty feet (20').
5. Front yard setback from arterial and collector streets (as identified on the highway district
functional classification map) is 30 feet in all residential zoning districts.
6. Street side setback on arterial and collector streets (as identified on the highway district
functional classification map) is 20 feet in all residential zoning districts.
7. Setback areas are subject to drainage compliance or otherwise specified within this title.
8. If a Planned Unit Development is approved, waivers to setbacks may be permitted if
determined by the council to be appropriate for the development and that such waivers will be
compatible with the area and shall meet emergency service requirements.
9. Building eves may project up to two feet (2’) into any required setback.
10. Patio covers may project to within 10’ of the rear yard setback provided that posts or
foundations are not located within the required setback, and utility easements are not encroached
upon.

D. Maximum Height Limit:
1. Height exceptions shall not be permitted except by discretion of the council with the submittal
of a conditional use permit or development agreement application.
2. The maximum height limitations shall not apply to the following architectural features, not
intended for human occupation: spire or steeple, belfry, cupola, chimney. Such architectural
features shall have a maximum height limit of twenty feet (20'), as measured from the roofline.
3. The maximum height limitations shall not apply to the following: amateur radio antenna;



                                                78
bridge tower; fire and hose tower; observation tower; power line tower; smokestack; water tank
or tower; ventilator; windmill; wireless communication facility, or other commercial or personal
tower and/or antenna structure; or other appurtenances usually required to be placed above the
level of the ground and not intended for human occupancy.
4. No exception shall be allowed to the height limit where the height of any structures will
constitute a hazard to the safe landing and takeoff of aircraft in an established airport.

E. All new residential and accessory structures over 200 s.f. within any zoning district shall
comply with residential setbacks. Accessory structures less than 200 s.f. shall not intrude on the
primary structures required side yard setback.

F. Spite strips, common lots, unreasonable development phasing, or other means of any type
purposely or unintentional that may result in the blocking of services or development, including
but not limited to sewer, water, streets, or utilities are prohibited in any zoning district within the
City of Star.

G. Additional Neighborhood Requirements:
1. All trash receptacles located within any residential district within the City shall be removed from
the sidewalk and/or front yard within 24 hours of collection and placed behind a screened area out
of view from the public. This shall be written into the CC&R’s of all newly approved subdivisions.

                                            ARTICLE B

                  ADDITIONAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT STANDARDS

8-3B-1: ALL AGRICULTURAL AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
8-3B-2: RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
8-3B-3: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
8-3B-4: FIGURE

8-3B-1: ALL AGRICULTURAL AND RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:

   A. Comply with Section 8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSE ESTABLISHED.
   B. Lighting shall comply with dark sky lighting requirements.

8-3B-2: RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:

   A.      Comply with Section 8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSE
           ESTABLISHED.
   B.      Manicured homesite areas shall be minimal and subordinate to open rural ground for
           pastures, farming, and other rural uses.
   C.      Rural style street sections shall be provided if approved by the applicable roadway
           authority.
   D.      Rural Residential developments are to be located so that they do not block extension
           of urban services at reasonable costs and will require utility easements where
           necessary to assure urban service extensions.



                                                  79
8-3B-3: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:

  A.    Comply with Section 8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSE
        ESTABLISHED.
  B.    When development is planned with lots that directly abut existing lots within a Rural
        Residential area, or “Special Transition Overlay Area” as shown on the
        Comprehensive Plan Land Use map, an appropriate transition shall be provided for
        the two abutting residential lot types. A transition shall take into consideration site
        constraints that may exist and may include clustering of the urban lots in order to
        provide an open space area avoiding urban lots directly abutting rural residential lots,
        or may include the provision of a buffer strip avoiding urban lots directly abutting
        rural residential lots, or may include setbacks within the urban lots similar to the rural
        residential lots directly abutting, or may include the provision of one half to one acre
        size lots directly abutting the rural residential lots.
  C.    Urban style development, as guided by provisions within the compressive plan and
        this Title, is required to limit urban sprawl, however, densities of no more than 1 to 2
        dwelling units per acre are to be designed within the floodplain, ridgeline developable
        areas and hillside developable areas (both as defined within the comprehensive plan).
  D.    Housing developments with densities of R-11 and higher shall be designed to limit
        height, increase setbacks and/or provide additional landscaping along the perimeter of
        the development, if determined by the council, where abutting areas are planned for
        lower densities.
  E.    Rezoning to R-11 and higher shall not be allowed unless adequate ingress/egress to
        major transportation corridors is assured.
  F.    All new residential, accessory uses or additions/remodels within the residential zones
        shall pave all unpaved driveways to the home.
  G.    Spite strips, common lots, unreasonable development phasing, or other means of any
        type purposely or unintentional that may result in the blocking of services or
        development, including but not limited to sewer, water, streets, or utilities are
        prohibited in any zoning district within the City of Star.
  H.    In any development that requires a traffic signal as part of the approval process, the
        developer shall be responsible for providing an Emergency Opticom System to the
        intersection.
  I.    Transitional Lots. For proposed residential developments located adjacent to a
        Special Transition Area only, as determined on the current Comprehensive Plan Land
        Use Map, transitional standards listed below shall be required if reasonable evidence
        is presented that adjacent properties will not be further subdivided in the future. This
        shall be through a legal encumbrance that prevents the adjacent land from being
        further subdivided. These encumbrances shall include:
        1. Property with a Future Comprehensive Plan Land Use Map designation that does
            not allow future redevelopment to densities lower than one dwelling unit per acre.
        2. Subdivision CC&R’s preventing further redevelopment;
        3. Easements granted to municipal or other political entities, voluntary development
            easements granted to conservation land trusts, or other, legal encumbrances
            conserving the property in perpetuity, such as deed restrictions.



                                             80
        This specifically excludes statements from landowners regarding future intent without
        proof of legal encumbrance.

        The allowed Transitional Density for new development adjacent to Special Transition
        Areas, shall be as follows:

         Existing Transitional Lot    Allowed Immediately          Allowed Immediately
         Sizes                        Adjacent Minimum Lot Size    Across the Road from
                                                                   Transitional Lot
         Lots larger than 1.1-acre    1 acre lots                  ½ acre lots
         Lots of 1 to 1.1-acre        ½ acre lots                  1/3 acre lots
         Lots smaller than 1-acre     1/3 acre lots                R-3 density Maximum

  J.    Additional residential standards applying to all new residential subdivisions:

        1. Residential Elevations:

                i. Building elevations for all residential uses shall be submitted with any
                   development application and will be included as part of any preliminary
                   plat, development agreement and/or any other condition of approval.

               ii. Single-Family Residential Building Front and Side Elevation Minimum
                   Standards. These standards shall be reviewed for compliance with all
                   submitted residential building permits under the Building Zoning
                   Certificate process. Council may adopt these standards as part of a
                   development agreement or preliminary plat approval. The following
                   minimum standards shall be applied to all new residential structure
                   elements in all zones:
                      1. Exterior finishes shall be primarily horizontal/vertical wood or
                           wood product siding, brick, stucco, stone, or other decorative
                           masonry product. A minimum of three (3) architectural elements
                           shall be provided for all single-family residential structures. These
                           elements shall include, but are not limited to, shingled, horizontal
                           or vertical siding, stone or brick highlights, garage door windows
                           or hardware, colored window frames, or other architectural
                           treatments deemed appropriate by the administrator.

8-3B-4 - FIGURE EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL ELEMENTS:




                                             81
              2. Two-story residential dwellings should provide a minimum of one,
                 second story side window per side elevation, when appropriate.
              3. A minimum one (1) foot overhang shall be provided on all roof
                 overhangs. Administrator may approve deviation from this
                 standard.
              4. Dwellings backing up to collector or arterial streets shall have rear
                 elevations and/or architectural designs that provide depth and
                 dimension, avoiding the flat-wall appearance. These elements must
                 be functional and may not be minimized or created solely for the
                 purpose of compliance with this provision.
              5. Additional landscaping buffers may also be required.

2. Dwelling Unit Design. Building styles shall be spread throughout the entire
   development (including all contiguously owned and phased properties). Nowhere
   within the development shall any fewer than 5 different exterior elevation styles
   and/or floorplans be located adjacent to each other. The number of different
   dwelling styles within a development shall be as follows:
                      a. 1 to 50 units = minimum of 5 architectural styles and/or
                         floorplans
                      b. 51 to 100 units = minimum of 7 architectural styles and/or
                         floorplans
                      c. 101 and over units = minimum of 10 architectural styles
                         and/or floorplans

3. Homeowners Associations. All subdivisions shall be maintained by a
   Homeowners association with appropriate Conditions, Covenants and Restrictions
   (CC&R’s). CC&R’s are not enforceable by the City and are private contracts
   between the developer and the property owner.




                                   82
         4. Irrigation and drainage ditches shall not be covered, tiled or re-routed as part of
            any new residential development unless specifically approved by Council and the
            applicable irrigation and/or drainage district. Perforated piping may be considered
            as an option if tiling is allowed.
                                        ARTICLE C

       ADDITIONAL COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE DISTRICT STANDARDS

8-3C-1: ALL COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE DISTRICTS:
8-3C-2: CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:


8-3C-1: ALL COMMERCIAL AND OFFICE DISTRICTS:

  A. Comply with Section 8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSE ESTABLISHED.
  B. New commercial developments shall incorporate site and architectural design
      recommendations from the Architectural Overlay Design Guidelines for the Central
      Business District and Riverfront Center.
  C. Big box retail commercial, generally a single-story single use building over 50,000
      square feet, shall not be permitted unless approved by Council.
  D. Commercial buildings and centers, including shopping centers and strip malls
      immediately adjacent to State Street and Star Road shall front the roadway with parking
      located to the rear. Single buildings may provide parking on the sides as approved by
      Council. Direct access to these roadways shall be limited to avoid excessive access
      points. Existing alleyways shall be utilized when present, or new alleyways as permitted
      by the transportation authority.
  E. All commercial buildings fronting State Street, Star Road, and State Hwy 16 & 20/26
      shall be designed with architectural elements facing the roadways that provide a visually
      pleasing character to the public view, as may be determined through the Design Review
      process.
  F. Site Improvements:
          1) Prior to any ground disturbance for any commercial, industrial or other non-
               residential buildings, a Commercial Site Improvements application shall be
               submitted to the City for approval by the City Engineer. This shall include any
               new site development initiated prior to a City Building permit.
          2) In any development that requires a traffic signal as part of the approval process,
               the applicant shall be responsible for providing an Emergency Opticom System
               to the intersection.
          3) One (1) full-size copy of the construction drawings, drawn in accordance with
               the requirements hereinafter stated. The construction Drawings shall be
               submitted on good quality paper, be professionally drafted, shall have the
               dimensions of not less than twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24” x 36”),
               and shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet
               (1”=100’) and contain a drafting date and north arrow.
                        a.    Application shall include compliance with Section 8-4A-8 and 8-
                              4A-11 of this ordinance.


                                             83
                    b.    Construction drawings shall include both above ground and below
                          ground improvements, including the proposed building envelope of
                          proposed improvements. Said improvements must include
                          proposed finished grades of all impervious surfaces, and shall be in
                          conformance with all Federal, State, and local regulations.
                          Construction drawings shall include an erosion and sediment
                          control plan, prior to pre-construction meeting.
                    c.    Electronic file of all application materials in original .pdf format
                          shall be submitted with the application on a thumb drive.

        4) Irrigation and drainage ditches shall not be covered, tiled or re-routed as part of
          any new residential development unless specifically approved by Council and the
          applicable irrigation and/or drainage district. Perforated piping may be considered
          as an option if tiling is allowed.

        5) Certification Of Completion: Upon the completion of construction of any
          commercial development, and/or other improvements subject to architectural
          review approval, a written certification of completion shall be prepared by the
          licensed engineer and/or architect responsible for the approved plan. The
          certifications of completion shall state that the installation of all improvements is
          in substantial compliance with the city approved plans. This certification shall be
          submitted prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, signature of a final
          plat, or release of bond, and is required as a part of, and not in lieu of, the
          inspections performed, and certificates issued by the city.


8-3C-2: ADDITIONAL CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT STANDARDS:

  A.   Comply with Section 8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSE
       ESTABLISHED.
  B.   High density residential may be permitted within the CBD in multiple use buildings
       with commercial or office type uses on the first floor and high density residential on
       upper floors.
  C.   New development on Main Street and Star Road, generally north and south of State
       Street, shall include transition consisting of a compatible mix of lower intensity
       commercial, retail and office type uses mixed with live/work type residential.
       Existing Single-Family uses are encouraged to convert to or redevelop as non-
       residential uses.
  D.   Big box retail commercial, generally a single-story single use building over 50,000
       square feet, shall not be permitted, unless approved by Council.
  E.   Drive-In Restaurants shall not be permitted within the designated downtown
       visioning plan area of the CBD District, as further defined in this code.
  F.   Commercial buildings and centers, including shopping centers and strip malls
       immediately adjacent to State Street and Star Road shall front the roadway with
       parking located to the rear. Single buildings may provide parking on the sides as




                                             84
           approved by Council. Direct access to these roadways shall be limited to avoid
           excessive access points. Existing alleyways shall be utilized when present.
   G.      All commercial buildings fronting State Street, Star Road, and State Hwy 16 & 20/26
           shall be designed with architectural elements facing the roadways that provide a
           visually pleasing character to the public view, as may be determined through the
           Design Review process.
   H.      The Council may place requirements on a mixed-use development, including a ratio
           of uses and/or timing of phases, to ensure that the overall development maintains its
           commercial intent.
   I.      New development shall incorporate site and architectural design recommendations
           from the Architectural Overlay Design Guidelines for the Central Business District and
           Riverfront Center.
   J.      Any new development shall comply with Section 8-3C-1C of this title regarding site
           improvements.
   K.      Irrigation and drainage ditches shall not be covered, tiled or re-routed as part of any
           new development unless specifically approved by Council and the applicable
           irrigation and/or drainage district. Perforated piping may be considered as an option if
           tiling is allowed.
   L.      Certification Of Completion: Upon the completion of construction of any commercial
           development, and/or other improvements subject to architectural review approval, a
           written certification of completion shall be prepared by the licensed engineer and/or
           architect responsible for the approved plan. The certifications of completion shall
           state that the installation of all improvements is in substantial compliance with the
           city approved plans. This certification shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a
           certificate of occupancy, signature of a final plat, or release of bond, and is required
           as a part of, and not in lieu of, the inspections performed, and certificates issued by
           the city.
   M.      Multi-family apartment developments are prohibited within the Central Business
           District unless as part of a multiple use building, as defined

                                          ARTICLE D

              ADDITIONAL LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT STANDARDS

8-3D-1: LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:

A.      Comply with Section 8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSE ESTABLISHED
B.      Specific Standards for Light Industry:
1. All mechanical equipment emissions; shipping and/or delivery; or other outdoor activity areas
shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300') from any abutting residential districts, or
the use is subject to a conditional use permit.
2. The application shall identify how the proposed use will address the impacts of noise and
other emissions on adjoining residential districts. More specifically, the following adverse effects
shall be mitigated through setbacks, buffers, sound attenuation and/or hours of operation:
a. Noise, odor, or vibrations; or direct or reflected glare detectable by the human senses without
the aid of instruments.



                                                85
b. Radioactivity and electric or electromagnetic disturbances that unduly interfere with the
normal operation of equipment, instruments, or appliances on abutting properties.
c. Any other emission or radiation that endangers human health, results in damages to vegetation
or property or which exceeds health and safety standards.
d. In the event that the administrator determines that the applicant cannot adequately address
such impacts, the use shall be subject to conditional use approval.
C. New development shall incorporate site and architectural design recommendations from the
Architectural Overlay Design Guidelines for the Central Business District and Riverfront Center.
D. Any new development shall comply with Section 8-3C-1C of this title regarding site
improvements.
E. Irrigation and drainage ditches shall not be covered, tiled or re-routed as part of any new
industrial development unless specifically required by the applicable irrigation and/or drainage
district. Perforated piping may be considered as an option if tiling is allowed.
F. Certification Of Completion: Upon the completion of construction of any industrial
development, and/or other improvements subject to architectural review approval, a written
certification of completion shall be prepared by the licensed engineer and architect responsible for
the approved plan. The certifications of completion shall state that the installation of all
improvements is in substantial compliance with the city approved plans. This certification shall be
submitted prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, signature of a final plat, or release of
bond, and is required as a part of, and not in lieu of, the inspections performed, and certificates
issued by the city.

                                            ARTICLE E

                   ADDITIONAL MIXED-USE DISTRICT STANDARDS

8-3E-1: MU MIXED-USE DISTRICT:

   A.      Comply with Section 8-3A-1: ZONING DISTRICTS AND PURPOSE
           ESTABLISHED
   B.      All development applications within a mixed-use district shall be accompanied by a
           conditional use permit, planned unit development, or development agreement
           application, which shall include a concept plan of the development.
   C.      The administrator shall make a recommendation to the applicant regarding what mix
           of uses are appropriate for any mixed-use development and shall then make a
           recommendation to the Council.
   D.      The development shall include uses from two (2) or more of the land use categories
           such as residential, commercial, office, light industrial, public space or agricultural.
   E.      Mixed-use areas along state highways, where adequate access can be provided for
           commercial use, shall be predominantly commercial with a very minor component of
           residential unless the residential is placed on upper floors as part of a mixed-use
           building.
   F.      For any mixed-use development which includes a residential component, a minimum
           of two (2) housing types, including but not limited to, single-family detached
           dwellings, single family attached dwellings and multi-family dwellings, shall be
           required. This excludes multi-family that is proposed to be placed solely on upper



                                                  86
     floors as part of a mixed-use building.
G.   The Council may place requirements on a mixed-use development, including a ratio
     of uses and/or timing of phases, to ensure that the overall development maintains its
     mixed-use intent.
H.   New development shall incorporate site and architectural design recommendations
     from the Architectural Overlay Design Guidelines for the Central Business District and
     Riverfront Center.
I.   Any new development shall comply with Section 8-3C-1C of this title regarding site
     improvements.
J.   Big box commercial, generally a single-story single use building over 50,000 square
     feet, shall not be permitted unless approved by Council.
K.   Commercial buildings and centers, including shopping centers and strip malls
     immediately adjacent to State Street and Star Road shall front the roadway with parking
     located to the rear. Single buildings may provide parking on the sides as approved by
     Council. Direct access to these roadways shall be limited to avoid excessive access
     points. Existing alleyways shall be utilized when present.
L.   Irrigation and drainage ditches shall not be covered, tiled or re-routed as part of any
     new mixed use development unless specifically required by the applicable irrigation
     and/or drainage district. Perforated piping may be considered as an option if tiling is
     allowed.
M.   Certification Of Completion: Upon the completion of construction of any mixed use
     development, and/or other improvements subject to architectural review approval, a
     written certification of completion shall be prepared by the licensed engineer and/or
     architect responsible for the approved plan. The certifications of completion shall state
     that the installation of all improvements is in substantial compliance with the city
     approved plans. This certification shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a
     certificate of occupancy, signature of a final plat, or release of bond, and is required as
     a part of, and not in lieu of, the inspections performed, and certificates issued by the
     city.
N.   All commercial buildings fronting State Street, Star Road, and State Hwy 16 & 20/26
     shall be designed with architectural elements facing the roadways that provide a
     visually pleasing character to the public view, as may be determined through the Design
     Review process.




                                           87
                                      ARTICLE F

       ADDITIONAL RIVERFRONT CENTER DISTRICT STANDARDS:

8-3F-1: RC RIVERFRONT CENTER DISTRICT:

A. Comply with Section 8-3A-1: Zoning Districts And Purpose Established.
B. All development applications within the Riverfront Center shall be accompanied by a
   conditional use permit, planned unit development, or development agreement application,
   which shall include a concept plan of the development.
C. The administrator shall make a recommendation to the applicant regarding what mix of
   uses are appropriate for the Riverfront Center and shall then make a recommendation to
   the Council.
D. The Riverfront Center shall include uses from two (2) or more of the land use categories
   such as residential, commercial, office, or public space.
E. The Riverfront Center shall include outdoor gathering space as a central focus along the
   Boise Riverfront and accommodate connections to the Boise Greenbelt system from the
   mixed-use area.
F. Single-family detached dwellings, and single family attached dwellings are prohibited
   within the Riverfront Center. A range of multi-family dwellings are encouraged are
   encouraged, though not required to be accommodated on upper floors as part of a
   vertical, mixed-use building.
G. The Council may place requirements on development within the Riverfront Center,
   including a ratio of uses and/or timing of phases, to ensure that the overall development
   maintains its mixed-use intent. (Ord. 303, 2-11-2020; amd. Ord. 310, 7-21-2020)
H. New development shall incorporate site and architectural design recommendations from
   the Architectural Overlay Design Guidelines for the Central Business District and
   Riverfront Center.
I. Any new development shall comply with Section 8-3C-1C of this title regarding site
   improvements.

                                      ARTICLE G

                    ARCHITECTURAL OVERLAY DISTRICT:

8-3G-1:

A. An Architectural Overlay District boundary is all of the existing Central Business District
   north of the Boise River, and approximately 750’ on either side of SH-44 from city limit
   to city limit, and Star Road from the Boise River north, and including all future
   annexations within this area. This shall also include all other non-residential zoned uses
   and properties throughout the City. Single-family dwellings that are part of an approved
   PUD or Conditional Use Permit shall comply with this section.
B. Architectural Overlay District includes the entirety of the South of the River Area Plan.



                                           88
C. The “STAR DESIGN GUIDELINES, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT AND
   RIVERFRONT CENTER” (the Guidelines), is adopted through this ordinance. It may be
   amended from time to time by a Resolution of the Star City Council and shall be used
   within the Architectural Overlay District.
D. If the Architectural Overlay District Guidelines conflict with other parts of the City of
   Star code, the Architectural Overlay District Guidelines shall be used.




                                           89
                                           CHAPTER 4

           ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS

                       ARTICLE A. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

8-4A-1: PURPOSE:
8-4A-2: APPLICABILITY:
8-4A-3: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
8-4A-4: ADDRESS NUMBERING:
8-4A-5: BIKEWAYS:
8-4A-6: BUILDING PERMITS:
8-4A-7: CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE:
8-4A-8: OBJECTIONAL CONDITIONS:
8-4A-9: DRAINAGE AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
8-4A-10: ENCLOSED TRASH AREA:
8-4A-11: FENCES:
8-4A-12: GRADING:
8-4A-13: PATHWAYS:
8-4A-14: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
8-4A-15: OUTDOOR SERVICE AND EQUIPMENT AREAS:
8-4A-16: PRESSURIZED IRRIGATION SYSTEM:
8-4A-17: SELF-SERVICE USES:
8-4A-18: SIDEWALKS AND PARKWAYS:
8-4A-19: WATER AND SEWER SUPPLY, PUBLIC:
8-4A-20: TRAVELING SLEEPING QUARTERS:
8-4A-21: MAILBOX CLUSTERS:

8-4A-1: PURPOSE:

This article provides standard regulations for the location, design, and development of new land
uses and the alteration of existing land uses. This article supplements the regulations for
development as otherwise stated within this title.

8-4A-2: APPLICABILITY:

This article shall apply to the development of all principal permitted, accessory and conditional
uses. The following regulations are the minimum standards of development. Additional
standards may be applied in accord with specific use standards, or other regulations of this title.

8-4A-3: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:

A. No detached accessory building or structure shall occupy any area in front of the main
building, unless approved as a conditional use, with a development agreement, or as part of an
administrator approved certificate of zoning compliance.




                                                 90
B. Regardless of their size, detached accessory buildings shall not encroach into required street
side or front yard areas.

C. A principal permitted structure with a valid building permit and being at least fifty percent
(50%) constructed shall be present on the subject property.

D. The accessory structure shall not be used as an additional dwelling. See secondary accessory
dwelling for allowance as a dwelling.

E. The accessory structure shall not be used for commercial or industrial purposes.

F. The accessory structure shall not be used to store commercial vehicles.

G. An accessory structure shall not be located in any required yard or on any publicly dedicated
easement, unless specifically allowed under this title.

H. An accessory structure shall not exceed a height of twenty-four feet (24').

I. An accessory structure located in the side yard, or portion thereof, shall be similar in
appearance and color to the principal permitted dwelling.

J. Accessory structures shall not be allowed in the central business district, unless approved by
Council.

K. A maximum of two (2) accessory structures shall be allowed on any residential parcel or lot,
unless approved by Council through a conditional use permit.

8-4A-4: ADDRESS NUMBERING Address Numbering (Building Identification)
: All residential, commercial and industrial buildings within the City shall be numbered with an
address assigned by the City. Numbers on residential buildings shall be a minimum of four
inches (4") in height. Numbers on commercial, industrial and apartment buildings shall be a
minimum of twelve inches (12") in height. Numbers shall be a minimum of ½ inch in width.
Number colors should contrast with the building color so that they are plainly visible. Where
possible, address numbers should be illuminated. All addressing shall be in compliance with the
International Fire Code 505.1.

   1. General Requirement
      All residential, commercial, and industrial buildings within the City shall be assigned an
      official address by the City and shall be clearly identified with address numbers in
      accordance with this section.
   2. Minimum Address Number Size
      a. Residential buildings shall display address numbers with a minimum height of four
      inches (4").
      b. Commercial, industrial, and apartment buildings shall display address numbers with a
      minimum height of twelve inches (12").
      c. All address numbers shall have a minimum stroke width of one-half inch (0.5").



                                                 91
   3. Visibility and Contrast
      Address numbers shall be of a color that contrasts with the background to which they are
      mounted and shall be plainly visible from the street, road, or fire apparatus access road
      serving the property.
   4. Illumination
      Where practicable, address numbers shall be illuminated.
   5. Setback Buildings and Private Lanes
      When a building is set back from the public way on a private lane, driveway, or access
      road, and/or when the address is not clearly visible from the street or road fronting the
      property, an additional address number shall be provided.
      The additional address number shall:
      a. Be installed on a post or other approved structure adjacent to the private lane or
      driveway,
      b. Have a minimum height of four inches (4"), and
      c. Be reflective.
   6. Additional Address Identification
      Additional address identification shall be provided when required by the Building
      Official or Fire Marshal, where deemed necessary to ensure rapid identification of
      buildings for emergency response.
   7. Code Compliance
      All address identification shall be installed and maintained in compliance with
      International Fire Code (IFC) Section 505.1, as adopted and amended by the City.


8-4A-5: BIKEWAYS:

A. Bikeways shall be encouraged within all developments, within the public right of way or
separate easement, consistent with the city's comprehensive plan.

B. The roadways to bikeways plan as adopted by the county highway district, shall be considered
when reviewing bikeway designs.

C. Standards: For bicycle and parking standards, see Chapter 8, Design Review.

D. New bikeways shall provide adequate easements to the City to provide connectivity.

8-4A-6: BUILDING PERMITS: Building permits shall not be issued on any property that does
not have a valid address and assessor’s parcel number. A single residential dwelling, model
home, clubhouse, multi-family building, or commercial building may be issued a building permit
with the existing address and assessor’s parcel number prior to recordation of a final plat,
provided that all improvements related to public life, safety and health is completed prior to
issuance of a building permit for the structure, as determined by the administrator. Those
improvements include water, sewer, power facilities, street paving, emergency services including
fire hydrants, and streetlights. The administrator may approve additional building permits as part
of an approved model home/office and amenity administrative permit, as allowed in Section 8-5-
22.



                                               92
8-4A-7: CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE:

A. Measurement of the Clear Vision Triangle:
1. For two (2) public streets, the area is defined by measuring from the intersection of the edge of
the travel lane (excluding parking and sidewalk) a distance of forty feet (40') along each road.
(See figure 8-4A-7(a) of this section.)
2. For a public street and driveway or alley, the area is defined by measuring from the
intersection of the edge of travel lane and the corner of the driveway or alley twenty feet (20')
along the roadway and ten feet (10') along the driveway or alley. See figure 8-4A-7(a) of this
section.

FIGURE 8-4A-7(a)
CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE DRAWING




B. Standards, Both at Controlled and Uncontrolled Intersections:

1. Planting and Development Standards:
    a. Any class I or class II trees planted within a clear vision triangle shall be pruned to a
    minimum height of eight feet (8') above the adjacent ground (less the height of berm, if
    applicable) or sidewalk surface and fourteen feet (14') above the adjacent street surface. See
    figure 8-4A-7(a) of this section.
    b. No evergreen trees shall be planted within any clear vision triangle.


                                                93
   c. No class III trees shall be planted within any clear vision triangle.
   d. The maximum height of any berm or vegetative ground cover at maturity within the clear
   vision triangle shall be three feet (3') from the lowest adjacent street grade.
   e. No fences higher than three feet (3') from the lowest adjacent street grade are permitted
   within four feet (4') from the corner of a lot that abuts two (2) streets to provide a safe clear
   vision triangle for vehicular traffic.
   f. No signs taller than three feet (3') are permitted in the clear vision triangle, except for
   street/stop signs approved by the transportation authority.
   g. Street signs must be visible and clear of vegetation of any kind.

2. Other Agency Standards: In all cases, the transportation authority standards shall apply in
addition to city of Star standards.

8-4A-8: OBJECTIONAL CONDITIONS RESTRICTED:

A. Performance Requirements: No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in
any manner creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable conditions which
could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining premises; except, that any use
permitted by this title may be undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards
to reduce dangerous and objectionable conditions to acceptable limits as established by the
following performance requirements:
1. Fire Hazards: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or explosive materials
shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire prevention equipment and by such safety
devices as are normally used in the handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be
removed from adjacent activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger
involved as specified in the uniform fire code.
2. Radioactivity Or Electrical Disturbances: No activity shall emit harmful radioactivity at any
point, or electrical disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment at any point
other than that of the creator of such disturbance.
3. Noise: Objectionable noise which is due to the volume, frequency or beat shall be muffled or
otherwise controlled.
4. Vibration: No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible without instruments on any
adjoining lot or property.
5. Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and regulations established by
the Idaho division of environmental quality.
6. Glare: No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is visible from any property
outside a manufacturing district or from any street.
7. Erosion: No erosion by person, wind or water shall be permitted which carries objectionable
substances onto neighboring properties.
8. Water Pollution: Water pollution shall be subject to the requirements and regulations
established by the health authority.
9. Service, Storage and Loading Areas: Service, storage and loading areas located at the rear or
side of structures.
10. Landscaping and Signage: Landscaping and signage must meet the criteria outlined in this
title.
11. Vehicle Parking: No vehicle, either operational or non-operational, shall be parked on any



                                                 94
vacant private property or within a public right of way for the purpose of storage or for
advertising the sale of the vehicle within the City at any time.
12. Weeds: Vacant properties within the City shall be weed abated at all times. At no time shall
weeds exceed a height of 12” in height.
13. Removal of Trash, Junk and Debris: This shall include, but is not limited to trash, junk or
disabled vehicles on any vacant property.

B. Enforcement: Any violation shall be subject to Titles 3 & 4 of the Star Municipal Code. The
administrator may require the submission of statements and plans indicating the manner in which
dangerous and objectionable elements involved in processing and in equipment operations are to
be eliminated or reduced to acceptable limits and tolerances. The administrator may issue a stop
work on any approved use until the violations are remedied, and/or may revoke city approvals
including preliminary plat/final plat or certificate of zoning compliance approvals.

8-4A-9: DRAINAGE AND STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:

A. Storm Drainage from Right of Way Under The Jurisdiction Of Local Highway District
   (Public): An adequate storm drainage system shall be required in all developments in
   accordance with the local highway district standards, specifications, and ordinances.
   Drainage plans and storm water calculations shall be submitted to the City for review and
   approval. City will review based on Local Highway District adopted codes and ordinances,
   along with other State regulations.

B. The City of Star reviews and approves stormwater management plans and erosion and
   sediment control plans not covered under item 8-4A-8-A above. The City has adopted in
   general the standards and requirements of Section 8000, Drainage and Stormwater
   Management and section 8200 of the most recent addition of the Ada County Highway
   District Development Manual; and the most recent addition of the Catalog of Stormwater
   Best Management Practices as prepared by the State of Idaho Department of Environmental
   Quality. Development shall comply with the above referenced standards and requirements.
   Additionally:

   1. All drainage, irrigation and stormwater from private property shall be retained on said
      private property unless otherwise approved in writing by the administrator and/or city
      engineer and the jurisdiction receiving the stormwater.
   2. Storm water from Public Right of Way shall not be disposed of or conveyed across
      private property without written agreement and easement between property owner and
      owner of Public Right of Way.
   3. All private above-ground infiltration facilities shall have a percolation/infiltration test
      completed that demonstrates facility performs in accordance with approved design
      criteria. Passing test results shall be approved by administrator and/or city engineer prior
      to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   4. A plan for operation, maintenance and repair of stormwater facilities owned by private
      property shall be prepared and submitted to the administrator and/or city engineer for
      review and approval. The approved plan shall be provided to the parties responsible for




                                               95
      maintenance and operation of the facility. Engineer of Record may certify that results
      meet or exceed infiltration rates used in the approved stormwater calculations.
   5. Privately owned stormwater facilities shall be designed to allow access for maintenance
      and operation. This includes heavy equipment access, if required. Maintenance access
      roads must be a minimum of twelve feet (12') in width, must have an HS-25 load capacity
      and a minimum turning radius of thirty feet (30').
   6. Safety ledges in accordance with Idaho BMP’s shall be constructed on the side slopes of
      all wet detention basins having a permanent pool of water and deeper than five feet (5').
   7. Discharge of stormwater to irrigation and/or drainage facilities is prohibited without
      written permission from irrigation and/or drainage facility owner.

8-4A-10: ENCLOSED TRASH AREA:

All trash and/or garbage and recycle collection areas for commercial, industrial and multi-family
residential uses shall be enclosed on at least three (3) sides by a solid wall or site obscuring fence
of at least six feet (6') in height or within an enclosed building or structure. Adequate vehicular
access to and from such area or areas for collection of trash and/or garbage, as determined by the
administrator, shall be provided.

8-4A-11: FENCES:

The following regulations shall govern the type, location, and construction of all fences:

A. General Standards:
1. Fences Taller Than Six Feet: Fence Height. All fences taller than shall be a maximum of six
feet (6') in height, unless approved though a fencing waiver permit (see 13 below). require a
Certificate of Zoning Compliance and building permit in the city of Star. Height is hereby
measured from bottom to top of panel. Post height not to exceed 8” above panel.
2. Barbwire Fencing: Barbwire fencing shall be prohibited, except through a conditional use
permit in the A, RR, MU, C-1, C-2, LI. district, when: a) used as the top section for security
fencing; and b) located a minimum of six feet (6') above grade to the bottom wire. Barbwire
fencing may be used in the Agricultural district for livestock only.
3. All open vision fencing shall be limited to wrought iron or open rail fencing only.
4. Chain link fencing shall be prohibited in all residential or commercial district unless required
by an irrigation district, school district or other jurisdiction for safety reasons, and where
wrought iron is not otherwise required.
5. Unsightly Materials: The use of boxes, sheet metal, old or decayed wood, broken masonry
blocks, pallets or other like unsightly, non-construction materials for fencing shall be prohibited.
6. Obstruction: No fence shall obstruct access to public utility boxes, meters or other
infrastructure.
7. Maintenance: Fences shall be kept free from advertising and graffiti and maintained in good
repair. Wood fences along collectors and arterials that are within an approved subdivision shall
be required to be stained/painted and kept in good condition at all times. The administrator may
issue a letter of violation to the HOA when any fencing falls into disrepair. Maintenance shall be
included in the CC&R’s.
8. Front Yard Fences: Front yard fences shall not exceed three feet (3') height for closed vision



                                                 96
and four feet (4') open vision within any front yard setback, as indicated in Figure 1. At no point
shall a fence be any closer than 5’ from a sidewalk.
9. Side Yard Fences on Corner Lots: Side yard fences on corner lots less than or equal to ten
(10) feet from the street shall not exceed three feet (3’) height for closed vision and four feet
(4’0) for open vision, as indicated in Figure 2. At no point shall a fence be any closer than 5’
from a sidewalk. Fences greater than 4’ in height must be minimum of 5’from a sidewalk.
10. Compliance with Clear Vision Triangle Requirements: All fences shall comply with the clear
vision triangle requirements as stated within this article.
11. Fencing provided by a developer in any subdivision, or by any future resident, shall not have
a gap along the bottom of the fence exceeding 2-inches to finished grade. This shall be included
within the approved CC&R’s for all new fencing.
12. A fencing plan for fences adjacent to common areas shall be submitted and approved with all
subdivision applications.
13. Fence Height Waiver Permit: A fence waiver permit may be issued to allow a fence up to 8
feet in height, subject to the following:
         a. A Certificate of Zoning Compliance for the waiver has been submitted and approved
         by the Administrator;
         b. The subject fence is not located adjacent to common open space, a corner lot, or
         adjacent to a public right of way, as indicated in Figure 3;
         c. The subject fence is located on property lines that has received written permission from
         all property owners affected by the fence location;
         d. The subject fence must remain consistent with all property lines;
         e. If fencing is on the rear yard property line of a corner lot, the fence shall transition
         down to 6 feet and remain at that height next to the right of way. At no point shall the
         fence be any closer than 5’ from a sidewalk.

FIGURES 8-4A-11(a)

Figure 1 - Fence Regulations




                                                97
Figure 2 - Fence Regulations on Corner Properties




Figure 3 – Fence Height Waiver




8-4A-12: GRADING:

A. Prior to any ground disturbance over 500 cubic yards on any property, or any disturbance of
hillside property, as defined in Section 8-4A-12J, including grading, filling, clearing or
excavation of any kind excluding activities associated with agricultural use, a grading application


                                                98
shall be submitted to the City for approval by the City Engineer. If grading activities are
anticipated to be done in association with other site improvements, the construction drawing
review will include the grading plan review and a separate application is not required. Early
grading permits may be issued at the request of the applicant and review and approval of City
Engineer.

An Application for Permit to Develop in an Area of Special Flood Hazard is required for earth
moving activities associated with any development activities. Refer to section Title 10 - Flood
Control for additional flood zone requirements.

A grading permit to develop in any Hillside Area, as defined in Section 8-4A-12J, is required.

All developments shall develop a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWWP) as required by
the Department of Environmental Quality.

B. Grading shall give consideration to desirable land use planning including impacts on adjacent
properties and future land uses. Grading plans shall consider natural terrain and special land
hazards, including but not limited to hillside and floodplain development.

       1. Grading permit applications shall include hillside and/or Special Hazard Area
       Development applications if said properties are located with areas impacted by those
       applications.
       2. Grading activities shall meet the requirements of other federal, state and local
       jurisdictions, including FEMA, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Idaho Department of
       Lands, The Idaho Department of Water Resources, The Idaho Department of
       Environmental Quality (including ground water discharge rules) and the local highway
       district.

       3. Grading of a property shall take into consideration adjacent roadways and properties,
       with focus on state highways, arterials and collectors. New construction shall not result
       in sidewalks not matching centerlines of existing roadways. All new development
       applications shall include elevations of adjacent properties and indicate what grade
       changes and fill requirements will result from the development of the new property in
       relationship to the existing property.The City Engineer shall approve all grading plans.

C. Grading Permit Application shall include a preliminary stormwater analysis for all earthwork
activities.

D. Grading plans shall include existing and proposed contours as 1-foot intervals. If existing
slopes exceed 10 percent contours intervals may be reduced with approval from the City
Engineer. Where applicable Base Flood Elevations shall be shown on the grading plans.

E. Grading permit applications shall include erosion and sediment control plans prepared by a
certified plan designer. Certification must be through the City of Boise or another comparable
program.




                                               99
F. Final grading of any type of development to be used for construction of any structure shall
conform to the requirements of IBC section 1805.

G. Provisions to control drainage runoff shall be constructed as part of final grading of any
development. Drainage runoff control provisions shall be adequate to prevent any surface or
subsurface drainage water from flowing or being conveyed onto an adjacent lot or parcel.
Specific improvements shall be considered for all roof drainage. Roof drains shall not daylight
on sidewalks included as main access pathways to building entrances, nor shall they drain across
any ADA improvements, including parking.

H. Any subdivision lot or parcel in the city to be used for construction of any building shall be
graded in such a manner that the finish grade within three feet (3') of any lot line, subdivision
boundary and parcel boundary comply with the following requirements:
       1. Match the grade of the ground of the adjacent lot or parcel at the lot line or parcel
       boundary; and
       2. Finished grade of the ground sloped no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical
       (2:1); or
       3. Construct a permanent retaining wall so the ground within three feet (3') of the lot line,
       subdivision boundary and parcel boundary.

I. Permit requirements for retaining walls shall comply with IBC section 105. A building permit
for retaining walls four feet in height and greater will be required prior to approval of the grading
permit. This includes construction drawings for new subdivisions.
J. Hillside Development:

               A. All hillside development proposals shall give consideration to desirable land
               use planning, soil mechanics, engineering geology, hydrology, and civil
               engineering. The evaluation includes, but is not limited to:

       1.   Hillside Development Evaluation:

               A. All hillside development proposals shall give consideration to desirable land
               use planning, soil mechanics, engineering geology, hydrology, and civil
               engineering. The evaluation includes, but is not limited to:
                      (1) Planning of development to fit the topography, soils, geology,
                      hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
                      (2) Orienting development to the site so that grading and other site
                      preparation is kept to a minimum; i.e., use of building or road envelopes,
                      and no build areas;
                      (3) Shaping of essential grading to complement the natural landforms and
                      to minimize padding and terracing of building sites;
                      (4) Division of land tracts into smaller workable units on which
                      construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
                      areas are not left bare and exposed during the winter- spring runoff period;
                      and




                                                100
              (5) Completion of slope stabilization (IE paving, landscaping) as rapidly as
              possible after grading, but no longer than two weeks after work is completed.

       B. Areas having soil, geology or hydrology hazards shall not be developed
       unless it is shown that their limitations can be overcome; that hazard to life or
       property will not exist; and that the safety, use or stability of a public way or
       drainage channel is not jeopardized.

       C. Areas over 25% slope shall be considered Steep Slope areas and shall be No
       Development areas. Development shall be limited except for the following:
             (1) City approved trails
             (2) Short sections of road to transition from one developable area to
             another.
             (3) Small sections required for utility improvements as specifically
             required by the utility provider.
             (4) NO portion of any residential building lot shall be located within a
             Steep Slope Area.
             (5) Exceptions must be approved by the City Council and shall be
             demonstrate the following:
                     (i) Area is isolated and not connected to other steep slope areas.
                     (ii) Grading creates minimum impact to hillside area including
                     non-steep slope areas.

2. Required Data: The developer shall retain professional expertise to obtain the
following information which is required by the commission:

       A. Soil Reports: For any proposed hillside development, a soils report shall be
       submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include data regarding the
       nature, distribution and strength of existing soils, conclusions and
       recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria for corrective measures,
       and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be
       developed.

       B.   Hydrology Report:
              (1) For any proposed hillside development, a hydrology report shall be
              submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include an adequate
              description of the hydrology, conclusions and recommendations regarding
              the effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed development and
              opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be
              developed. Hydrology Report shall include preliminary stormwater
              calculations and must include the intent for the entire project, including all
              residential lot areas.
              (2) Flood frequency information shall be provided for the area proposed
              for the development, if applicable.




                                        101
3.    Grading And Drainage Plan:

           A. A preliminary grading and drainage plan shall be submitted with
           each hillside preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following
           information:
                   (1) Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be
                   achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
                   drainage channels and related construction;
                    (2) Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
                   subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage
                   reservoirs and other protective devices to be constructed; and

           B. A final grading plan shall be submitted with each final plat and include the
           following information:
                  (1) Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved by
                  the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes and proposed
                  drainage channels and related construction. Final grading plan shall not
                  deviate significantly from the preliminary grading plan. Significant
                  deviations include cut or fills greater than 4 feet in difference, road
                  alignment changes greater than 50 feet from preliminary plat, or overall
                  changes in overall earthwork greater than 10% (Cut or Fill);
                  (2) Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface drainage
                  devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
                  protective devices to be constructed; and

 4.     Development Standards:
               A. Soils:
                       (1) Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such
               as vegetation and rubbish and any other material which is determined by
               the soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
               conducive to stability.
                       (2) Cuts and fills shall be designed to provide safety, stability and
               adequate setback from property lines in accordance with City standards,
               including building codes,

                  B.   Roadways:
                          (1) Road alignments shall reasonably follow natural terrain and no
                  unnecessary cuts or fills shall be allowed.
                          (2) The width of the graded section shall extend 2 feet beyond the
                  outside edge of the sidewalk. If sidewalks are not installed the grading
                  shall be extended to 3 feet beyond the curb on both the cut and fill sides of
                  the roadway.
                          (3) If sidewalks are not proposed for the development a pedestrian
                  walkway plan will be required.

      5.   Vegetation And Revegetation:



                                           102
               A. The developer shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation plan as part
               of the landscape plan which shall include a complete description of the existing
               vegetation, including the vegetation to be removed, the vegetation to be planted,
               and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall include an analysis
               of the environmental effects of such operations, including the effects it may have
               on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality and fish and wildlife.
               B. Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soils shall be established on all disturbed
               areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained within lot
               boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetal cover after all construction is
               completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species that tend to recover from
               fire damage and do not contribute to a rapid rate of fire spread.
               C. The developer shall be fully responsible for any destruction of native
               vegetation proposed and approved for retention. He shall carry the responsibility
               both for his own employees and for all subcontractors from the first day of
               construction until the notice of completion is filed. The developer shall be
               responsible for replacing such destroyed vegetation in kind or its equivalent.
               D. Site left unattended for more than 14 days shall be temporally stabilized with
               landscape or other measures.

       K. Maintenance: The owner of any private property on which grading or other work has
       been performed, pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building permit granted under
       the provisions of this chapter, shall continuously maintain and repair all graded surfaces
       and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls, drainage structures or means, and other
       protective devices, plantings and ground cover installed or completed.

8-4A-13: PATHWAYS:

A. Pathways are required consistent with the city of Star comprehensive plan and adopted
pathway plan within all new residential and commercial developments as part of the public right
of way or as separate public easements dedicated to the City so that an alternate transportation
system (which is distinct and separate from the automobiles) can be provided.

B. Pathways in the middle of long blocks may be required where necessary to obtain convenient
pedestrian circulation to schools, parks, other residential areas, and/or shopping areas.

C. Pathways within subdivision shall have a walking surface of at least five feet (5') in width.
The pathway surface shall either be in pavement or concrete unless an alternative surface is
approved by Council.

D. Pathway easements shall be open to the public. All new pathways shall dedicate an easement
to the City for public use.

E. Pathway easements, dedicated to the City, shall be required along the Boise river as shown
within the comprehensive plan and shall be open to the public. Pathway widths along the Boise
river shall be determined by the Council.




                                                103
8-4A-14: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:

A. The following types of lighting are exempt from the regulations of this section:
1. Light fixtures that have a maximum output of less than twenty (20) watts.
2. All outdoor lighting produced by the direct combustion of natural gas or other fossil fuels such
as kerosene lanterns or gas lamps.
3. Temporary holiday lighting used for seventy-five (75) days or less per year.
4. Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency lighting needed for fire protection, police
protection, and/or other emergency services.
5. All hazard warning lights required by federal or state regulatory agencies.

B. The installation of any of the following types of lighting is prohibited:
1. Mercury vapor lamp fixture and/or lamp.
2. Laser source light or any similar high intensity light when projected above the horizontal.
3. Changing colors, strobe or moving lights, or searchlights (for advertising purposes) are
prohibited in all districts.
4. Lighting, including holiday lighting, on commercial or private tower structures that exceed the
district height limit is prohibited, except as required by regulations of the federal aviation
administration (FAA).
C. Standards:
1. Light fixtures that have a maximum output of two hundred sixty (260) lumens twenty (20)
watts or more shall have an opaque top and side to prevent upward and outward lighting.
2. Light fixtures that have a maximum output of one thousand (1,000) lumens or more per fixture
shall have an opaque top to prevent up lighting, and the bulb shall not be visible.
3. Light fixtures that have a maximum output of one thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens or
more shall have an opaque top to prevent up lighting; the bulb shall not be visible and shall have
a full cutoff shield. See figure 8-4A-18 14(a), figure 2 of this section.
4. Light fixtures with a maximum output of one thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens or more
shall be placed such that the effective zone of light (as documented by the photometric test
report) shall not trespass on abutting residential properties. See figure 8-4A-18, figure 2 of this
section.
5. Down style lighting shall be required to preserve dark sky objectives, except where
impractical as may be determined by the administrator and Council.
6. See Chapter 8 for additional streetlight and dark sky lighting standards. Lighting on any
elevation of a residential or commercial structure shall comply with the following dark sky
requirements:
             A. Carriage lights, or any similar lighting fixture with direct illumination shall be
                 prohibited (see Figure 1). Lighting shall be limited to canned lighting within a
                 sofit or a fixture that directs the lighting downward, or upward if under a sofit or
                 other overhang.
             B. At no time after final occupancy shall any lighting on any elevation of a
                 residential or commercial structure be changed by a property owner that would
                 result in direct illumination of any lighting.
7. Floodlight fixtures shall be located in such a manner as to prevent direct glare into a street and
to minimize impact on abutting properties.
a. Floodlight fixtures shall be installed so that they do not tilt up more than forty-five degrees



                                                104
(45°) down from vertical.
8. Up lighting shall only be allowed in cases where the fixture and any light it emits are shielded
from the sky by a roof overhang or similar structural shield.
9. In residential districts, the height of a freestanding light fixture on private property shall not
exceed six feet (6'). Streetlamps are exempt from this height restriction.
10. Light fixtures mounted on a wall may extend to the full height of the structure, but no farther.
11. Electrical feeds to outdoor light fixtures shall be underground, not overhead.
12. Lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas shall be downward facing and shielded
from neighboring properties.
13. All Public Streetlights shall follow the specific lighting type illustrated in Figure 8-4A-14(a),
Figure 3.
14. Parking lot lighting in all commercial developments shall comply with the following:
            A. Light poles in parking lots adjacent to existing or future residential zones and uses
                shall not exceed 16’ in height from its base. Bases shall not exceed 2’ in height.
                Screening and/or other measures shall be provided to prevent light from
                unreasonably affecting the residential uses.
            B. All other light pole heights shall not exceed 24’ in height, measured from the
                base. Bases shall not exceed 2’ in height.
            C. Fencing and/or other screening methods shall be used to prevent unreasonable
                light trespass from headlights within the parking lot areas, including entrances
                and/or within drive-thru isles.
            D. No lighting within a parking lot shall be positioned to directly shine into the
                public view.

FIGURES 8-4A-143(a)

Figure 1 - Examples of Full Cutoff Shields




Figure 2 - Light Trespass




                                                105
Figure 3 – Streetlight Style




           Subdivision Streetlight                     Downtown Historic Streetlight


8-4A-15: OUTDOOR SERVICE AND EQUIPMENT AREAS:

A. Outdoor mechanical equipment in commercial developments (including, but not limited to,
heaters and fans) shall not be located within fifty feet (50') of any abutting residential districts.
To reduce noise, permanently mounted mechanical equipment shall be enclosed to the maximum
extent possible.

B. Outdoor utility meters, HVAC equipment, trash dumpsters, trash compaction and other
service functions shall be incorporated into the overall design of commercial buildings and


                                                106
landscaping so that the visual and acoustic impacts of these functions are fully contained and out
of view from adjacent properties and public streets.

8-4A-16: PRESSURIZED IRRIGATION SYSTEM:

A. System Installation Required: In each development, the applicant shall provide underground,
pressurized irrigation water. For subdivisions, each and every lot within the subdivision shall
have underground pressurized irrigation water in compliance with this chapter. The pressurized
irrigation system shall be constructed and installed at the same time as the domestic water lines,
but it shall not necessarily be in the same trenches.

B. Irrigation System Requirements:
1. The system shall not be connected to potable water, unless a waiver by Star Sewer and Water
District is granted per the standards of this title;
2. The system shall be designed by a registered professional engineer licensed in the state of
Idaho;
3. The system shall be a piped delivery, operating at a minimum pressure of forty-five (45)
pounds per square inch (psi);
4. The system shall deliver to each destination point a minimum fifteen (15) gallons per minute
(gpm) at forty-five (45) psi;
5. Main line distribution piping diameter shall be a minimum of three inches (3");
6. All irrigation bibs shall be clearly labeled with the words "Non-Potable Water - For Irrigation
Only";
7. Provisions shall be made for diversion and flow measurement from irrigation water source;
8. Water rights shall be transferred to the association managing entity;
9. Applicant shall secure written approval from all pertinent irrigation entities for each phase of
development;
10. If pressurized irrigation will not be available to each lot at all times, applicant shall provide a
rotation schedule for irrigation system usage identifying times and days that pressure irrigation
will be available to each lot. This schedule shall be included in the CC&R’s for the subdivision.
11. Power filters should be installed to minimize harmonic distortion.
12. All main lines should have appropriate thrust blocks.

C. Irrigation System Maintenance and Operation: Irrigation system maintenance and operation
shall be provided by the irrigation district or canal company in which the subdivision lies, a
municipal irrigation district, or by the formation of another entity capable of operating and
maintaining a pressurized irrigation system. Developer shall provide written assurance that
provisions have been made for ownership, operation, and maintenance of the irrigation system
prior to approval by the city council.

D. Conditions for Waiver Of Irrigation System Requirement: The requirement for installation of
a pressurized irrigation system may be waived by the city council when the Developer has
established that any of the following situations exist:
1. A sufficient surface irrigation water right does not exist for the property: This must be
documented in writing by the appropriate irrigation district or canal company and the Idaho
department of water resources and shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. The waiver shall



                                                 107
be granted only for that portion of the subdivision which cannot be served.
2. Existing surface water rights cannot be delivered to the property by the irrigation district or
canal company due to delivery capacity or scheduling. The administrator may require the
installation of the pressurized irrigation system if water rights may be available within two (2)
years. This must be documented in writing by the appropriate irrigation district or canal
company.
3. The requirement to provide a pressurized irrigation system may be waived if the city council
finds that, due to the specific circumstances, the cost of obtaining water rights, reestablishing
water rights or developing the system would impose an undue economic hardship on the
developer. For purposes of this section, an undue economic hardship shall consist of showing
that the cost per lot to develop the system would be twenty five percent (25%) higher than the
cost per lot for providing a system to subdivisions of similar size and density constructed in the
city within the previous two (2) years, or that the cost per lot of the system would exceed five
percent (5%) of the expected per lot market value of the development.
4. If waiver is granted by the city council, pursuant to subsections 1, 2, and 3, above, compliance
with Idaho Code section 31-3805 (regulations requiring delivery of irrigation water rights in
subdivisions) is still required.

8-4A-17: SELF-SERVICE USES:

Any unattended, self-service uses, including, but not limited to, laundromats, automatic teller
machines (ATMs), vehicle washing facilities, fuel sales facilities, and storage facilities, shall
comply with the following requirements. The Star police designee may approve alternative
standards where it is determined that a similar or greater level of security is provided:

A. Entrance or view of the self-service facility shall be open to the public street or to adjoining
businesses and shall have low impact security lighting.

B. Financial transaction areas shall be oriented to and visible from an area that receives a high
volume of traffic, such as a collector or arterial street.

C. Landscape shrubbery shall be limited to no more than three feet (3') in height between
entrances and financial transaction areas and the public street.

8-4A-18: SIDEWALKS AND PARKWAYS:

   A. All sidewalks shall adhere to the standards shown in the table below.

                                        MINIMUM SIDEWALK AND
 ROADWAY CLASSIFICATION                                                                NOTES
                                       PARKWAY PLANTER WIDTHSI
                                      7 Foot (7’) Detached Sidewalk with
                                       8 Foot (8’) Parkway Planter Strip
              Arterial
                                            Both Sides of Roadway




                                                 108
                                   7 Foot (7’) Detached Sidewalk with
         Collector                  8 Foot (8’) Parkway Planter Strip
                                         Both Sides of Roadway

                                                                           All roadways not designated
                                                                            as an arterial, collector, or
                                   5 Foot (5’) Detached Sidewalk with        highway, in any form, on
                                  Minimum 8 Foot (8’) Parkway Planter       ACHD’s Major Street Map
           Local                                                           or Canyon Highway District
                                                  Strip
                                         Both Sides of Roadway             #4’s map, shall be considered
                                                                                       Local.


       Highway 44
                                   8 Foot (8’) Detached Sidewalk with
           &
                                    8 Foot (8’) Parkway Planter Strip
      Highway 20/26
                                         Both Sides of Roadway
         Arterial



       Private Streets                                                      See 8-4D for requirements




B. All mailboxes, utility boxes and other impediments shall be located in the Parkway Planter
   Strip to the extent possible. In situations where impediments must be in the sidewalk, such
   as at corners or crosswalks, there shall be clearance around the impediment in the path of
   travel equivalent to the designated sidewalk width. Tapers on each side of impediments
   shall be at least 10 feet (10’) in each direction. Sidewalk paving shall be done around
   impediments. The Administrator may waive taper requirements if site conditions warrant.
C. In agricultural, rural residential and R-1 districts, or in areas of a rural nature as determined
   by the Council to be appropriate by development agreement, sidewalks may not be
   required.
D. When existing sidewalk is located adjacent to a property, a 10-foot (10’) sidewalk
   transition shall be provided from the existing sidewalk to the proposed sidewalk. The
   proposed sidewalk shall meet the standards of this title.
E. In certain instances where property is located along W. State Street in the CBD, and when
   the Idaho Transportation Department is planning future roadway improvements, the
   applicant may be required to bond for sidewalk improvements.
F. Trees shall be planted in parkway planter strips in accordance with City Code Chapter 8,
   Article D: Landscape and Buffer Area Standards.
G. The first 180 feet (180’) of a subdivision entry shall have an 8-foot (8’) parkway planter
   strip between the sidewalk and curb.
H. Temporary obstructions including but not limited to vehicles, trash receptacles, or trailers
   shall not block the sidewalk.


                                             109
   I. Standards may be increased as required by the transportation agency.

8-4A-19: TRAVELING SLEEPING QUARTERS:

Recreation vehicles and equipment, including, but not limited to, travel trailers, fifth wheels,
recreational vehicles, motor coaches, and tents, shall not be used anywhere in the City as living
quarters for longer than seventy-two hours (72) within a six (6) month period, unless within an
approved campground or recreational vehicle park, or as allowed in the temporary use section.

8-4A-20: WATER AND SEWER SUPPLY, PUBLIC:

The owner of any building, whether occupied or not which is within three hundred feet (300’) of
the Star Sewer and Water District services shall install water and sewer services and connect to
the Star Sewer and Water District system, at the time of annexation and/or development,
including remodels.

8-4A-21: MAILBOXES:

All mailbox clusters shall be approved by the postmaster prior to installation. All clusters shall
be covered with an architecturally designed cover, to be approved by the Administrator prior to
final plat signature. All covers shall be provided with lighting and shall be stained/painted and
kept in good condition at all times. The administrator may issue a letter of violation to the HOA
when any mailbox cluster or cover falls into disrepair. Maintenance shall be included in the
CC&R’s. A turnout shall be installed adjacent to the mailbox cluster to provide community
access, if approved by the transportation authority and postmaster. The design shall be included
as part of the preliminary plat submittal.




       ARTICLE B. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS

8-4B-1: PROCESS:
8-4B-2: PARKING STANDARDS:
8-4B-3: REQUIRED NUMBER OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES:
8-4B-4: STANDARDS FOR ALTERNATIVES TO ON SITE PARKING:


                                               110
8-4B-5: OFF STREET LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
8-4B-6: PARKING IN LIEU PAYMENTS:
8-4B-7: RESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL PARKING DISTRICTS:

8-4B-1: PROCESS:

An off-street parking and loading plan shall be required as a component of any applicable permit.
Such plan shall also be reviewed by the Star joint fire protection district. Such plan shall show
the following:

A. The off-street parking and loading plan shall contain the location, size, and type of all
proposed off-street parking and loading facilities.

B. If the proposed development project shall be completed in phases, such phases shall be noted
on the plan.

8-4B-2: PARKING STANDARDS:

A. Design of Parking Areas:
1. All parking areas shall be designed and constructed to provide the type and number of off-
street parking spaces required by this article and designed as required by this section.
2. Location of parking spaces relative to structure(s).
3. Parking spaces for all detached residential dwelling units shall be located on the same lot as
the use that they are intended to serve.
4. Parking for attached residential dwelling units shall be located not more than three hundred
feet (300') from the structure(s), except as provided by section 8-4B-7 of this article.
5. Parking spaces for nonresidential uses shall be located not more than five hundred feet (500')
from structure(s), except as provided by section 8-4B-7 of this article.
6. Off street parking spaces shall not be located in any landscape buffer as required by this title.
7. Parking stalls and driving aisles shall be designed in accord with the standards in table 8-4C-
5(a) of this section and figure 8-4B-5(b) of this section shows the parking design dimensions.
8. All required parking as determined in section 8-4B-6 of this article shall be designed for
standard vehicles.
a. All parking areas shall provide on-site turnarounds in accord with the Star fire department
standards for all off-street parking spaces and loading facilities.
b. The design of off-street parking areas shall not require moving any car to gain access to a
required parking space.
c. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the parking lot design and sidewalk and/or
access provisions meet all Americans with disabilities act (ADA) requirements.
d. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the parking lot design meets the
requirements of the Fire District.
TABLE 8-4B-2(a)
REQUIRED STALL WIDTH AND LENGTH BY PARKING ANGLE

Parking          Stall         Curb            Stall          One-Way Driving       Two-Way
Angle            Width         Length          Depth          Aisle                 Driving Aisle


                                                 111
0°                 9'0"         23'0"           9'0"           12'0" As              24’0”
                                                               Determined by
                                                               Fire District
30°                9'0"         18'0"           17'8"          12'0" See Above       24’0”
45°                9'0"         12'9"           20'5"          13'0" See Above       24’0”
60°                9'0"         10'5"           21'10"         16'0" See Above       24’0”
90°                9'0"         9'0"            20'0"          22'0" See Above       24’0”

All drive aisles adjacent to a building shall be a minimum of 25’0” 26’00” or as required by the
fire code Fire District, unless the building is 30 feet in height or greater, at which point the drive
aisle shall be 26’0” or as otherwise approved by the Fire District.

FIGURE 8-4B-2(b)
PARKING SPACE AND DRIVE AISLE DESIGN

Legend:
A. Parking angle           D. One-way drive aisle
B. Stall width             E. Two-way drive aisle
C. Stall depth




B. Improvements:
1. All off-street parking areas, including driveways and parking lots shall be improved with
asphalt, concrete, pavers, or bricks, unless otherwise approved as allowed through this title.
Approved alternative surfaces other than solid surfaces shall provide an annual maintenance
plan.
2. All parking and loading areas shall provide proper drainage of surface water to prevent the
drainage of such water onto adjacent properties or walkways.
3. Except as otherwise provided in this section, all off street parking areas shall be provided with
a substantial wheel restraint to prevent cars from encroaching upon abutting private and public
property or overhanging beyond the designated parking stall dimensions. This standard shall not

                                                 112
apply to temporary uses.
         A. When a vehicle bumper overhangs onto a sidewalk or landscape area, the parking stall
         dimensions may be reduced two (2) feet in length if two (2) feet is added to the width of
         the sidewalk or landscaped area, and the additional area is planted in ground cover. In
         this case, wheel restraints may be removed.
4. Parking spaces shall be marked, including handicapped symbols and signs.
5. All lighting provided to illuminate a parking area shall comply with the lighting standards
provided in this chapter.
6. All landscaping improvements shall comply with this chapter.

C. Bicycle Parking Facilities: Bicycle parking facilities shall meet the following location and
design standards:
1. Bicycle parking facilities shall be located as close as possible to the building entrance(s).
2. Bicycle parking facilities shall not obstruct pedestrian walkways, public sidewalks, or
building.
3. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the bicycle parking facilities meet all
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements.

8-4B-3: REQUIRED NUMBER OF OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES:

   A. Required parking spaces for other permitted or conditional uses not listed herein or uses
      that are listed but may be different from normal operation, shall be determined by the
      administrator and/or Council. Among the factors for determining the number of spaces to
      be required for a use not listed herein, the administrator may compare the proposed use
      with a use which has similar traffic generating characteristics as outlined in the most
      recent version of the institute of transportation engineers trip generation manual.

   B. Minimum Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces: The minimum number of required off
      street vehicle parking spaces for residential uses shall be:
     Type Of Use                            Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
     RESIDENTIAL
       Apartments or multi-family           For each unit with 2 or more bedrooms - 2 including
       dwellings                            1 covered; for each 1 bedroom or studio unit - 1.5
                                            including 1 covered. Guest parking shall be provided
                                            at a ratio of .25 spaces per unit.
       Boarding houses, lodging             1 for each sleeping room or 1 for each occupant,
       houses,                              whichever number is greater
       dormitories and fraternity
       houses
       which have sleeping rooms
       Mobile home court (RV)               1 for each trailer/RV space
       Mobile home or manufactured          For each unit with 2 or more bedrooms - 2 including



                                                 113
 home park                        1 covered; for each 1-bedroom unit - 1 covered.
 Senior Housing Developments      1 covered space per unit. Guest parking shall be
                                  provided at a ratio of .25 spaces per unit.
 Single-family dwelling           2 including 1 covered
 Two-family dwelling              For each unit - 2 including 1 covered
COMMERCIAL
 Ambulance services               1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area; plus 2
                                  enclosed ambulance storage spaces
 Artist studios                   1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area
 Auction facility                 As required with conditional use permit
 Automobile washing facility      1 per 200 square feet of gross floor area of sales,
                                  office, or lounge area; plus, queue for 3 cars per
                                  washing station
 Automotive gas station/service   1 for each 2 gasoline pumps and 2 for each service
 shop or fuel islands             bay (spaces in front of bays or pumps shall not be
                                  counted)
 Automotive, mobile home,         1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area; plus 1 per
 travel                           500 square feet outdoor display
 trailer, and/or farm implement
 sales
 Automotive repair shop, body     1 per 225 square feet of gross floor area
 shop,
 or tire shop
 Automotive storage               1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area of office
                                  space; plus 1 per 1,000 square feet of gross storage
                                  area
 Banks/financial institutions     1 for each 200 square feet of gross floor area; plus,
                                  queue for 4 cars per drive up window
 Catering service                 1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area
 Childcare - family               1
 Childcare - group                2
 Childcare - daycare center       3 for each classroom but not less than 9 for the
                                  building




                                      114
Pre-school/Learning Center     3 for each classroom but not less than 9 for the
                               building
Churches and other places of   1 for each 5 seats
religious assembly
Clinic                         1 per 200 square feet of gross floor area
Club or lodge                  1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area
Commercial entertainment
facilities:
Auditoriums, sports arenas,    1 for each 3 seats
theaters and similar uses
Bowling alleys                 3 for each alley or lane, plus 1 additional for each 100
                               square feet of the area used for restaurant, cocktail
                               lounge, arcade area or similar use
Dance floors, skating rinks    1 per 100 square feet of gross floor area
Event/Entertainment Facility   Indoor Facility – 1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
                               area; Outdoor Facility – 1 per 8 seats
                               Or as otherwise required with conditional use permit
Outdoor swimming pools,        1 for each 4 persons' capacity, plus 1 for each 4 seats
public or community or club    or 1 for each 30 square feet floor area used for seating
                               purposes, whichever is greater
Tennis and racquetball clubs   3 per court
Communication facilities       1 per 500 square feet gross floor area
Convenience store              1 per 250 square feet gross floor area;
                               plus 1 for each 2 gasoline pumps
Detention facilities           As specified by conditional use permit
Emergency health care          1 per 200 square feet of gross floor area
Emergency services             1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area; plus,
                               minimum of 2 enclosed vehicle storage spaces
Equipment rental and sales     1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area; plus 1 per
yard                           500 square feet outdoor display
Food and beverage sales        1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area
Health clubs, spas, and        1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area, or as
weight reduction salons        otherwise required with conditional use permit.



                                   115
Hospitals                          1 for each bed
Hotels, motels                     1 for each sleeping room, plus 1 for each 2
                                   employees
Kennel                             1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area
Laboratories                       1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area
Laundromat                         1 per 300 square feet of gross floor area
Laundry                            1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area; plus, queue
                                   for 3 cars per drive up window
Maintenance and repair             1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area; plus 1 per
services                           500 square feet of outdoor storage area
Mortuaries, funeral parlors, and   1 per 4 seats
similar type uses
Nursery, plant materials           1 per 500 square feet of outside display/ lathe
                                   house/greenhouse area, plus 1 per 250 square feet
                                   gross floor area
Nursing/convalescent homes,        1 for each 2 beds
sanitariums, children's homes,
asylums and similar uses
Offices, business and              1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area
professional
Offices, medical and dental        1 per 200 square feet of gross floor area
Pawn shops                         1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area
Personal improvement               1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area
Personal services                  1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area
Printing and/or blueprinting       1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area
Restaurant with drive-through      1 per 200 square feet of gross floor area; plus, queue
                                   space for 5 cars for drive up service
Restaurants, dining rooms,         1 per 150 square feet of gross floor area; plus 1 per 35
taverns, nightclubs, etc.          square feet dance floor
Retail sales of large items such   1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area;
as furniture and appliances
Retail sales not listed under      1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area;
another use classification



                                       116
 Riding academies/stables          1 per 4 stalls
 Shop, contractors (and/or yard)   1 per 400 square feet gross floor area of shop; plus 1
                                   per 1,000 square feet of gross storage area (indoor
                                   and outdoor)
 Storage (enclosed building        1 per 1,000 square feet of gross storage area; Self-
 and/or fenced area)               storage facilities: As specified by Conditional Use
                                   Permit.
 Travel services                   1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area
 Vet clinic (animal hospital)      1 per 400 square feet of gross floor area
INDUSTRIAL
 Automotive wrecking yard or       1 per 1,000 square feet gross storage area; plus 1 per
 salvage                           300 square feet office or sales area
 Industry (custom)                 1 per 1,000 square feet gross area used for industrial
                                   purposes; plus 1 per 300 square feet office or sales
                                   area
 Industry (limited)                1 per 750 square feet of gross floor area used for
                                   industrial purposes; plus 1 per 300 square feet office
                                   or sales area
 Industry (research and            1 per 500 square feet
 development)
 Manufacturing facilities and      1 per 500 square feet gross area used for
 processing plants                 manufacturing/processing; plus 1 per 300 square feet
                                   office or sales area
 Warehousing, wholesaling,         1 per 1,000 square feet gross area up to 20,000 square
 distribution and storage          feet plus 1 per 2,000 square feet gross area over
                                   20,000 square feet
PUBLIC/SEMI-PUBLIC
 Business, technical and trade     1 for each 2 students
 schools
 Colleges, universities            1 for each 4 students
 Cultural facilities               1 per 300 square feet gross floor area; plus 1 per 90
                                   square feet for area for assembly purposes
 Elementary and junior high        2 for each classroom and 1 for every 5 seats in the
 schools                           auditoriums or assembly halls




                                        117
       Government offices                  1 per 250 square feet gross floor area
       High schools                        As required with conditional use permit
       Kindergartens, childcare            3 for each classroom, but not less than 9 for the
       centers,                            building
       nursery schools and similar
       uses
       Libraries, museums and art          1 for each 400 square feet floor area
       galleries


Notes:
1. The size of the garage required for dwelling units shall be measured by exterior dimensions
and shall be at least 10 feet by 20 feet for a 1 space garage and 20 feet by 20 feet for a 2-space
garage. Driveway widths may be tapered at the street for garages with more than three spaces.
2. The parking pad shall be measured from garage face to edge of sidewalk or edge of paved
travel lane (public street, private street, or alley).
3. Within the CBD zoning district, minimum required parking may be reduced by Council for up
to 50% of all non-residential uses. Adjacent on-street parking may also be included in the
minimum parking requirement. Council may also require a parking in-lieu-of payment for a
portion of the reduced parking, in accord with Section 8-4B-6.
4. To encourage rehabilitation of structures within the CBD zoning district, or a structure within
a district proposed to be changed to CBD, existing structures may be upgraded and the use
changed if no expansion of the structure is planned and if approved by the building official and
Flood Plain Administrator, and no additional parking shall be required except for ADA required
spaces.

C. Public Safety: In circumstances where there would appear to be a public safety issue, the
administrator may request additional information from the applicant to determine if there is
sufficient parking. When, in the determination of the administrator, there is insufficient parking,
the applicant shall provide alternatives to on-site parking as set forth in section 8-4B-4 of this
article. The determination by the administrator shall be based on the following criteria:
1. The specific use(s) proposed and/or on the property;
2. Uses in the vicinity of the property;
3. A traffic study, if prepared, forecasting the expected traffic and parking needs expected from
the use(s);
4. The availability of on street, shared, and/or public parking within the vicinity of the use;
and/or
5. The availability of public transit, vanpooling or other alternative transportation to serve the
use.

D. Parking Spaces; Change of Use: Upon any change of use, the number of vehicle parking
spaces to be provided shall be calculated according to the requirements of this article for the new
use.



                                                118
E. ADA Requirements: It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the size and number
of handicap accessible spaces meets all Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements.
For ADA stalls, where a van space and regular accessible space share an aisle, the van space
shall be located on the passenger side, to prevent vans from needing to back into the space.

F. Spaces Continuously Maintained: The vehicle parking spaces shall be continuously
maintained.

G. Elimination/Reduction of Spaces: No required parking area or space provided, as required by
this article, shall later be eliminated, reduced, or converted in any manner unless other equivalent
facilities approved by the administrator are provided.

H. Bicycle Parking Spaces: One bicycle parking space shall be provided for every twenty-five
(25) vehicle parking spaces, except for single-family residences, two-family duplex, and
townhouses.

8-4B-4: STANDARDS FOR ALTERNATIVES TO ON SITE PARKING:

Alternatives to providing on-site parking as set forth in this section are encouraged in all
developments. When required to meet minimum parking standards of section 8-4B-3,
alternatives may include, but are not limited to, shared use facilities.

A. Conditions: Conditions favorable to providing alternatives to on-site parking are as follows:
1. Shared use:
a. There are convenient pedestrian connections between separate properties;
b. The properties and/or uses are within one thousand feet (1,000') of each other;
c. The principal operating hours of the uses are not in substantial conflict with one another; and
d. Directional signs provide notice of the availability of parking.

B. Agreement:
1. All parties involved with the shared use parking area shall submit a written agreement to the
administrator, signed by the applicable parties involved. The agreement shall specify the
following:
a. Party or parties responsible for construction; and
b. Party or parties responsible for maintenance.
2. The applicant or owner shall record such agreement with the county recorder prior to issuance
of any permits.
3. The shared use parking agreement may be terminated by the parties only if off street parking is
provided in conformance with this article and approved by the administrator prior to the
termination.
4. In-lieu-of fees for required parking spaces may be allowed in the Central Business District
with a parking space fee being determined solely by the Council in accord with Section 8-4B-6.
5. Parking garages shall be designed to accommodate future public parking needs.
8-4B-5: OFF STREET LOADING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:

A. Off street loading spaces for commercial and industrial uses shall be provided in accord with



                                                119
table 8-4B-5(a) of this section.

TABLE 8-4B-5(a)
ADD NUMBERS: REQUIRED LOADING SPACES
BY GROSS FLOOR AREA

Gross Floor Area                                          Required Type And
In Square Feet                                            Number Of Spaces
0 to 36,000                                               1 type B
36,001 to 100,000                                         1 type A and 1 type B
Each additional 75,000 or fraction thereof                1 additional type A

B. Type A spaces shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in width and thirty-five feet (35') in
length. Type B spaces shall be not less than fifteen feet (15') in width and sixty-five feet (65') in
length. All spaces shall have fourteen feet (14') of vertical clearance.

C. Parking and loading areas shall be designed so vehicles shall not back out into the street.

D. No off-street loading space shall be located closer than fifty feet (50') to an abutting rural or
residential district unless entirely enclosed within a sound attenuating structure, such as masonry
block. No off-street loading space shall face an abutting residential district.

E. Any off-street loading space located within fifty feet (50') of a residential district shall not
operate between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.

8-4B-6: PARKING IN LIEU PAYMENTS:

Within the central business district, as defined by the city of Star comprehensive plan, the
required number of parking spaces may be met by a cash in lieu payment to the city prior to
issuance of a building/zoning permit or certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs first. The fee
shall be for the city to provide public off-street parking in the vicinity of the use, the maximum
distance of which shall be determined by Council. The fee shall be six thousand dollars
($6,000.00) per space, or such sum as may be adopted by resolution of the city
council. In addition to the above fee the owner may be required to pay an annual per space
maintenance fee as shall be determined by resolution of the city council.

When considering in lieu payments the city may set limitations on the number of spaces for
which an in-lieu-of fee may be tendered.
All in lieu funds received for reduction of parking spaces under this section shall be placed into a
special and separate parking improvement and acquisition account to be used solely for the
purchase and improvement of municipal parking lots and structures to be located within the
central business district, as defined by the city of Star comprehensive plan, and may be for use
by the general public.

8-4B-7: RESIDENTIAL AND SPECIAL PARKING DISTRICTS:



                                                 120
Residential and Special Parking Districts may be allowed within residential neighborhoods,
subject to compliance with Section 5-2-10. A Certificate of Zoning Compliance (CZC) shall
be approved by the Director.

                                           ARTICLE C

                            TEMPORARY USE REQUIREMENTS

8-4C-1: APPLICABILITY:
8-4C-2: GENERAL STANDARDS:
8-4C-3: STANDARDS FOR RETAIL FIREWORKS STANDS AND CHRISTMAS TREE
SALES LOTS:
8-4C-4: STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES:
8-4C-5: STANDARDS FOR SEASONAL SALE OF AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD
PRODUCTS:
8-4C-6: STANDARDS FOR ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, COMMUNITY OR
RECREATION EVENTS:
8-4C-7: STANDARDS FOR VENDORS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH AN ARTS,
ENTERTAINMENT, COMMUNITY OR RECREATION EVENTS:
8-4C-8: STANDARDS FOR PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES IN THE
NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS INVOLVING THE SALE OF GOODS AND
MERCHANDISE WHERE IT IS ACCESSORY TO THE PRINCIPALLY PERMITTED
USE:
8-4C-9: STANDARDS FOR FOOD TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND STANDS (TEMPORARY
FOOD OPERATION):

8-4C-1 APPLICABILITY:

The regulations of this article shall apply to all temporary uses in all districts with the exception
that special events and seasonal activities that are conducted as part of an education facility shall
be deemed accessory uses. Temporary uses shall be processed in conjunction with a Certificate
of Zoning Compliance.

8-4C-2: GENERAL STANDARDS:

A. Time Period:
1. Except as otherwise defined in this section, a temporary use is allowed for a specified period
not to exceed six (6) months.
2. For seasonal stands or events, the certificate of zoning compliance shall specify a beginning
and end date.

B. Location:
1. Structures and/or the display of merchandise shall comply with the setback requirements of
the district within which it is located.
2. Temporary structures, signs and merchandise shall be displayed so as not to interfere with the
vision triangle. In no case shall items be displayed, or business conducted within the public right



                                                 121
of way, unless otherwise authorized by the transportation authority.
C. Structures: A maximum of one structure shall be allowed and may cover a maximum of five
hundred (500) square feet, unless otherwise permitted within the regulations of this title, or as
approved by the administrator.
1. The use shall not result in the construction of any permanent structures that would not
otherwise be permitted subject to the regulations of this title.
2. Any temporary structures shall be portable and completely removed at the end of the allowed
time period.
3. The applicant shall obtain any necessary building permits.

D. Caretaker Unit:
1. One caretaker unit in a trailer or recreational vehicle may be allowed on the site only for the
purposes of security and maintenance of the site.
2. The unit shall be completely removed at the end of the allowed time period.

E. Parking and Access:
1. Adequate off-street parking shall be provided to serve the use.
2. The use shall not displace the required off-street parking spaces or loading areas of the
principal permitted uses on the site.
3. The entrance and exit drives shall be designed to prevent traffic hazards and nuisances and
shall be approved by the Transportation Authority.
4. All surfaces used for parking shall be constructed with paving, vegetative cover or of dustless
material, unless otherwise required subject to the regulations of this title.

F. Signs: All signs erected in association with the use shall be in compliance with the regulations
of this title.

G. Noise: Compressors, fans, pumps, and other motorized equipment shall be located or shielded
to reduce noise levels to adjoining properties and shall not operate between the hours of 8 pm to
7 am. If electricity is reasonably available to the site, the applicant shall be required to connect to
the electric source.

H. Site Conditions:
1. Returned to Clean Condition: The site shall be returned to a clean condition after the
termination of the use, including free of debris and garbage.
2. Disposal: Unsold food products, trees, greens, or debris generated by the use shall be properly
disposed of off the site.
3. Unobstructed Sidewalk: If a sidewalk or walkway in front of the building is used for the
temporary use, a minimum width of four feet (4') shall remain unobstructed for pedestrian use.

I. Conditions: The administrator may require additional conditions to mitigate adverse effects on
surrounding properties, particularly regarding traffic generated, compressor and pump noise,
odor, light and glare, dust, and hours of operation. The conditions may include, but not be
limited to, any or all of the following:
1. Standards related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other potentially objectionable
impacts.



                                                 122
2. Limits on time of day for the conduct of the specified use, including deliveries and
maintenance.
3. Other standards necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and mitigate
adverse effects on surrounding property.
J. Compliance with Guidelines: The use shall comply with any guidelines, regulations and
permitting process required by any authorizing public agencies, including, but not limited to, the
Central District Health Department, transportation authority, and the Star city departments.

K. Failure to comply with general standards will result in the revocation of the temporary use
permit by the administrator.

8-4C-3: STANDARDS FOR RETAIL FIREWORKS STANDS AND CHRISTMAS TREE
SALES LOTS:

A. Retail fireworks stands and Christmas tree sales lots shall be prohibited in residential districts.

B. Firework stands and Christmas tree sales lots shall comply with General Standards in 8-4C-2
of this title, unless otherwise stated.

C. The applicant or owner shall obtain written approval of the Fire District prior to issuance of
certificate of occupancy.

D. Dates of fireworks sales shall comply with Idaho Code section 39-2606. Nonaerial common
fireworks may be sold at retail and used beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight June 23
and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight July 5 and beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight December 26 and ending at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight January 1. Fireworks may
be sold and used at any time in compliance with permits issued under the provisions of section
39-2605, Idaho Code.

E. Applicant shall comply with the standards for access as determined by the transportation
authority. Entrance and exit drives shall be designed to prevent traffic hazards and nuisances.

F. A site plan is required showing ingress and egress. Proper turn-around and site circulation
shall be provided at all times, including signage indicating parking, entrances and exits.

G. Parking areas shall be paved, in vegetative cover, or improved with a dustless material.

H. Conditions: The administrator may require additional conditions to mitigate adverse effects
on the current and surrounding properties, particularly regarding traffic, access, light and glare,
dust, and hours of operation.

I. Applicant(s) shall apply for any required building and vendor permits.

J. Aerial fireworks shall not be possessed or sold at any time.

K. Christmas tree sales lots shall be removed within five (5) days from Christmas.



                                                 123
L. Applicant may stay in an RV on the lot during the duration of the use.

M. Such sales are limited to a period of time not to exceed two (2) consecutive months for
pumpkin and Christmas tree sales, and four (4) consecutive months per calendar year for other
uses.

8-4C-4: STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES AND STAGING AREAS FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS:

A. New development shall contain construction debris on site and prevent windblown debris
from entering neighboring properties.

B. Temporary buildings, construction trailers, equipment and materials and staging areas for
infrastructure improvements may be permitted in any district during the period construction work
is in progress. Such temporary facilities or equipment shall be removed within thirty (30) days of
completion of the construction work. Construction trailers, model homes and sale centers shall
be reviewed as a temporary use and shall be processed as a certificate of zoning compliance and
shall be valid for one (1) year with an additional 1-year extension available. The extension shall
be processed as a Certificate of Zoning Compliance Re-verification. Model homes and sales
offices requested to be constructed prior to final plat recordation shall comply with Section 8-5-
22.

       1. Staging areas for infrastructure improvements shall provide the following:
             a. Site plan showing access, fencing, storage areas, areas containing any
                 flammable materials, offices, parking and buffers to existing residential uses.

8-4C-5: STANDARDS FOR SEASONAL SALE OF AGRICULTURAL AND FOOD
PRODUCTS:

A. The provisions of this title shall apply to snow cone shacks, pumpkin sale stands, produce
stands, corn mazes and similar uses as determined by the administrator. Lemonade stands or
other similar food sales within neighborhoods conducted by children are exempt from these
regulations so long as the activity remains only on local streets and is not conducted on
collectors, arterials or highways.

B. Such sales and uses are limited to a period of time not to exceed two (2) consecutive months
for pumpkin and sales and corn mazes, and four (4) consecutive months per calendar year for
other uses. Snow cone shacks may be approved for extended periods and multiple years, as
determined by the administrator.

C. Applicant shall comply with the standards for access as determined by the transportation
authority.

D. Parking areas shall be paved, in vegetative cover, or improved with a dustless material.




                                               124
E. Applicant shall obtain all appropriate city permits. Fire district approval is required for all
uses.

8-4C-6: STANDARDS FOR ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, COMMUNITY OR
RECREATION EVENTS:

A. Events, such as festivals, carnivals, circuses, fairs, and amusement rides may be allowed in
any nonresidential district for a period not to exceed two (2) weeks within any ninety (90) day
period.

B. Special, one (1) day events, including, but not limited to farmers markets, charity events, fun
runs, car shows may be allowed in residential and commercial districts, including City parks,
subject to approval by the City. Food trucks and other temporary food operations may be
permitted for these events.

C. Seasonal, reoccurring events, including, but not limited to farmers markets and concert series
may be allowed in commercial districts, subject to approval by the City. Food trucks and other
temporary food operations, live music, and other amenities may be permitted for these events.
This use shall not exceed 6 months, and shall only be allowed for one season. Multiple seasons at
the same location shall be subject to a Conditional Use Permit. The administrator shall apply
additional standards in this Article to insure that the health, safety and welfare of the community
is maintained.

C D. The Star city police department and fire district shall review the location and access for any
use in this category.

D E. Vendors shall obtain a city of Star vendor permit.

8-4C-7: STANDARDS FOR VENDORS NOT ASSOCIATED WITH AN ARTS,
ENTERTAINMENT, COMMUNITY OR RECREATION EVENTS:

A. The applicant shall provide notarized consent of the property owner.

B. The use shall be prohibited in certain residential districts.

C. Vendor shall obtain city of Star vendor permit.

D. No caretaker unit shall be allowed.

E. Signs shall only be allowed on the vending units and shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet
in area.

F. No direct sales to customers in vehicles shall be allowed. The design and placement of the
units shall prohibit such sales. Vendors with drive-up windows must be in a structure and shall
be processed as a conditional use in accord with chapter 1, "Administration", of this title.




                                                 125
G. The twelve (12) month approval period shall be evaluated at the time of the annual license
renewal.
1. If the administrator, city clerk and/or Star city police and fire district have unresolved,
compelling complaints regarding the vendor, a new temporary use shall be required. Otherwise,
the twelve (12) month approval period shall be extended.
2. As complaints are received, it will be determined if the complaint represents a compelling
health and/or safety issue. Any compelling complaints will be forwarded to the Star city police
for resolution in accord with the enforcement provisions of section 8-2A-11 of this title.

8-4C-8: STANDARDS FOR PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES IN THE
NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS INVOLVING THE SALE OF GOODS AND
MERCHANDISE WHERE IT IS ACCESSORY TO THE PRINCIPALLY PERMITTED
USE:

A. The applicant shall provide notarized consent of the property owner.

B. Activities may be conducted outside for a period of not more than two (2) weeks.

C. Applicant shall obtain a city of Star vendor permit.

   C. Applicant may request renewal twice during any calendar year, for a maximum of six (6)
      weeks per calendar year.

 8-4C-9: STANDARDS FOR FOOD TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND STANDS
(TEMPORARY FOOD OPERATIONS):

A. Temporary food operations shall only be located on a parcel or lot in a non-residential zoning
   district, unless otherwise be permitted subject to the regulations of this title.

B. The temporary food operation shall be located on a parcel or lot that has a paved driveway
   and parking lot capable of providing parking during the busiest hours of operation while
   maintaining safe access to and from the operation, unless an alternative is approved by the
   administrator.

C. The temporary food operation shall further comply with General Standards in 8-4C-2 of this
   title.

D. The number of temporary food operations allowed within City Limits shall be determined by
   current population. One (1) temporary food operation per 3,000 citizens shall be allowed
   within City Limits.

E. Temporary food operations shall be approved for one (1) year, with yearly Zoning
   Compliance Reverification application required for continued use. The applicant shall renew
   their vendors permit annually.
F. Temporary food operations shall be located no closer than 300’ from an existing, established
   restaurant or business serving food during that establishments normal business hours, unless


                                               126
   written approval from the owner of that establishment is provided at the time of application.

G. A portable restroom, or arrangements for restroom access from an adjacent business shall be
   required for employees of a temporary food operation that is in operation longer than two (2)
   hours.

H. A table and chairs or picnic table shall be provided for all temporary food operations. Any
   additional items, including but not limited to umbrellas, canopies/covers, signs and displays
   are subject to review and approval at the time of application.

I. Food trucks shall be removed from the site daily once service is completed. Trailers and stands
   may stay on the property so long as it does not create a visual nuisance to the community.

                   ARTICLE D. PRIVATE STREET REQUIREMENTS

8-4D-1: PURPOSE:
8-4D-2: APPLICABILITY:
8-4D-3: STANDARDS:
8-4D-4: REQUIRED FINDINGS:

8-4D-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this article is to provide better circulation and safety within commercial,
industrial, mixed use, multi-family and certain low-density residential (R-1 or lower)
developments by allowing private streets to provide frontage and access to properties that do not
have internal public streets, when clear emergency vehicle travel lanes and name addressing for
the properties are established. It is not the intent to approve private streets for single-family,
duplex and/or townhouse developments in higher density residential developments (R-2 or
higher, M-U) unless they are part of a planned unit development or development agreement,
where creative design elements including, but not limited to, mixed uses, common area mews,
live/work concepts and/or distinctive open spaces are designed within the development. The
applicability may be extended where the administrator finds it necessary to provide private
streets, and Star Fire District determines that private streets will maintain or enhance the safety
of a development. All private streets within a new subdivision shall be approved by the Star Fire
District and City Council. Private streets within a minor land division or parcel division may be
approved by the Administrator, with Fire District approval. Any private street necessary to
provide access and/or frontage in association with a public utility or infrastructure facility and
does not provide access to any dwellings shall be exempt from Council approval but is still
subject to fire approval.

8-4D-2: APPLICABILITY:

The provisions of this section shall apply to any eligible property that does not have frontage on
a public street or where frontage is not required. A private street shall not deny the ability to
provide access or connectivity to adjacent properties, as determined by the Administrator,
emergency services and/or Transportation Agencies.



                                                127
8-4D-3: STANDARDS:

All private streets shall be designed and constructed to the following standards:

A. Design Standards:
1. Easement: The private street shall be constructed on a perpetual ingress/egress easement or a
single platted lot (with access easement) that provides access to all applicable properties.
2. Connection Point: Where the point of connection of the private street is to a public street, the
private street shall be approved by the transportation authority.
3. Emergency Vehicle: The private street shall provide sufficient maneuvering area for
emergency vehicles as determined and approved by the Star Fire District.
4. Gates: Private gates or other obstacles shall not be allowed, unless approved by Council and
the Fire District.
4. Emergency Access Easement: All private streets shall provide a recorded emergency access
easement to the City to provide for emergency access.

B. Construction Standards:
1. Obtain approval from the county street naming committee and/or City for a private street
name(s);
2. Contact the transportation authority to install an approved street name sign that complies with
the regulations of the county street naming ordinance;
3. Roadway and Storm Drainage: The private street shall be constructed in accord with the
roadway and storm drainage standards of the transportation authority or as approved by the city
of Star based on plans submitted by a certified engineer.
4. Street Width and Construction: The private street may be constructed within an easement for
low density developments of R-1 or less with a Fire District approved base and width of no less
than 28’. All other residential developments subdivisions shall be constructed within a common
lot and shall have a 36’ street width, and shall meet ACHD/CHD4 construction standards, unless
otherwise determined by the Council and Star Fire District.
5. Sidewalks: A minimum five foot (5') detached sidewalk shall be provided on at least one side
of the street in commercial districts. This requirement may be waived if the applicant can
demonstrate that an alternative pedestrian path exists. Residential private streets in some lower
density developments may request a modification or waiver of sidewalks to be approved by
Council. All other residential developments shall have a minimum 5’ detached sidewalks on both
sides of the street and shall further meet the requirements of 8-4A-17 of this title.
6. All private streets shall be paved unless a waiver is obtained by Council. Waivers for paving
shall only be considered in low density developments of R-1 or less. Any unpaved streets shall
be required to meet all Highway District standards for paving the approaches onto public streets.
7. Fire Lanes: All drive aisles as determined by the Star Fire District to be fire lanes, shall be
posted as fire lanes with no parking allowed. In addition, if a curb exists next to the drive aisle, it
shall be painted red.
8. Permits shall not be issued for any structure using a private street until the private street has
been approved and inspected by the City Engineer and Fire District, and the transportation
authority has signed off on all permits associated with access to a public street.




                                                 128
C. The applicant or owner shall establish an on-going maintenance fund through the Owner’s
association with annual maintenance dues to ensure that funds are available for future repair and
maintenance of all private streets. This shall be a requirement in a development agreement and/or
as part of a planned unit development. A reserve account condition shall be included in the
recorded CC&R’s and shall be provided to the City for review. The condition of approval shall
include the following:

       1. Private Street Reserve Study Requirements.
              a. At least once every three years, the board shall cause to be conducted a
                  reasonably competent and diligent visual inspection of the private street
                  components that the association is obligated to repair, replace, restore, or
                  maintain as part of a study of the reserve account requirements of the common
                  interest development, if the current replacement value of the major
                  components is equal to or greater than one-half of the gross budget of the
                  association, excluding the association’s reserve account for that period. The
                  board shall review this study, or cause it to be reviewed, annually and shall
                  consider and implement necessary adjustments to the board’s analysis of the
                  reserve account requirements as a result of that review.
              b. The study required by this section shall at a minimum include:
                        i. Identification of the private street components that the association is
                           obligated to repair, replace, restore, or maintain.
                       ii. Identification of the probable remaining useful life of the components
                           identified in paragraph (1) as of the date of the study.
                      iii. An estimate of the cost of repair, replacement, restoration, or
                           maintenance of the components identified in paragraph (1).
                      iv. An estimate of the total annual contribution necessary to defray the
                           cost to repair, replace, restore, or maintain the components identified
                           in paragraph (1) during and at the end of their useful life, after
                           subtracting total reserve funds as of the date of the study.
                       v. A reserve funding plan that indicates how the association plans to fund
                           the contribution identified in paragraph (4) to meet the association’s
                           obligation for the repair and replacement of all private street
                           components.
              c. A copy of all studies and updates shall be provided to the City, to be included
                  in the development application record.

8-4D-4: REQUIRED FINDINGS:

In order to approve the application, the administrator and/or Council shall find the following:

A. The design of the private street meets the requirements of this article;

B. Granting approval of the private street would not cause damage, hazard, or nuisance, or other
detriment to persons, property, or uses in the vicinity; and

C. The use and location of the private street shall not conflict with the comprehensive plan



                                                129
and/or the regional transportation plan.

                  ARTICLE E. COMMON OPEN SPACE AND SITE AMENITY
                                REQUIREMENTS

8-4E-1: APPLICABILITY:
8-4E-2: STANDARDS:

8-4E-1: APPLICABILITY:

The standards for common open space and site amenities shall apply to all residential
developments with a density exceeding one dwelling unit per acre.

8-4E-2: STANDARDS:

A. Open Space and Site Amenity Requirement (see also Chapter 8 “Architectural Review”):
      1. The total land area of all common open space shall equal or exceed fifteen percent
      (15%) of the total gross acreage of land area of the development. A minimum of 10% of
      the total gross acreage of the development shall be for useable area open space. Open
      space shall be designated as a total of 15% minimum for residential developments in all
      zones with densities of R-2 or greater.
      2. Each development is required to have at least one site amenity.
      3. One additional site amenity shall be required for each additional twenty (20) acres of
      development area, plus one additional amenity per 75 residential units.
      4. Developments with a density of 1 dwelling unit per acre or less may request a waiver
      of open space and amenities to the Council. Developments with a density of 2 dwelling
      units per acre or less may request a 50% reduction in total required open space and
      amenities to the Council.
      5. For multi-family developments, see Section 8-5-203 for additional standards.

               Indent section to the right
               B. Qualified Usable Area Open Space: The following qualifies to meet the
               useable area open space requirements:
                       1. Any open space that is active or passive in its intended use, and
                       accessible or visible by all residents of the development, including, but not
                       limited to:
                               a. Open grassy area of at least fifty feet by one hundred feet
                               (50' x 100') in area;
                               b. Qualified natural areas, as determined by the Administrator;
                               c. Ponds or water features where active fishing, paddle boarding,
                               or other activities are provided (50% qualifies towards total
                               required usable area open space, must be accessible by all residents
                               to qualify. Ponds must be aerated. All ponds shall be provided with
                               safety floatation devices (rings) located at reasonable distances, as
                               determined by the administrator;
                               d. A plaza.



                                               130
                              e. Common lots that include a pathway providing local or regional
                              connectivity that is a minimum of 20’ in width.
                              f. Irrigation easements/ditches when a pathway is included (to be
                              measured from the center of the ditch to the property line of the
                              common lot).
                       2. Additions to a public park or other public open space area.
                       3. The buffer area along collector and arterial streets may be included in
                       required overall common open space for residential subdivisions.
                       4. Parkways along local residential streets with detached sidewalks that
                       meet all the following standards may count toward the common open
                       space requirement:
                              a. The parkway is a minimum of eight feet (8') in width from street
                              curb to edge of sidewalk and includes street trees as specified
                              otherwise herein.
                              b. Except for alley accessed dwelling units, the area for curb cuts
                              to each residential lot or common driveway shall be excluded from
                              the open space calculation. For purposes of this calculation, the
                              curb cut area shall be a minimum area of twenty-six feet (26') by
                              the width of the parkway.
                              c. Stormwater detention facilities do not qualify to meet the
                              common area open space requirements, unless all of the following
                              is met:
                                   1. Must be at least fifty feet by one hundred feet (50' x 100')
                                       in area;
                                   2. Specifically designed as a dual use facility, as determined
                                       by the administrator, to include minimal slopes, grass
                                       throughout, and guarantee of water percolation within 24
                                       hours of storm event.
                                   3. Is located in a development that has a second usable open
                                       space area that contains a qualified site amenity as herein
                                       defined.

                       5. Visual natural space, including open ditches, wetlands, slopes or other
                       areas that may not be readily accessible to residents, and is provided with
                       open-style fencing, may qualify for up to 20% of the required open space
                       total, as determined by the Administrator.

C. Qualified Site Amenities: Qualified site amenities shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
       1. Clubhouse;
       2. Fitness facilities, indoors or outdoors;
       3. Public art;
       4. Picnic area; or
       5. Recreation amenities:
               a. Swimming pool with an enlarged deck and changing and restroom facility
               (pools shall count towards 3 required site amenities).



                                                131
             b. Children's play structures.
             c. Sports courts.
             d. Additional open space in excess of 10% qualified usable space.
             e. RV parking for the use of the residents within the development.
             f. School and/or Fire station sites if accepted by the district.
             g. Pedestrian or bicycle circulation system amenities meeting the following
             requirements:
                     (1) The system is not required for sidewalks adjacent to public right of
                     way;
                     (2) The system connects to existing or planned pedestrian or bicycle routes
                     outside the development; and
                     (3) The system is designed and constructed in accord with standards set
                     forth by the city of Star;
             h. Pond and/or waterway amenities including, but not limited to docks, shade
             structures, ADA access, and fish stocking.
       6. Community Gardens.

D. Location: The common open space and site amenities shall be located on a common lot or an
area with a common maintenance agreement.

E. Maintenance:
       1. All common open space and site amenities shall be owned by and be the responsibility
       of an owners' association for the purpose of maintaining the common area and
       improvements thereon.




                                             132
                                Chapter 5

                        SPECIFIC USE STANDARDS

8-5-1: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU)
(change numbering below)
8-5-12: ANIMAL CARE FACILITY:
8-5-2: ARTIST STUDIO:
8-5-3: ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT OR RECREATION FACILITY, INDOOR AND
OUTDOOR:
8-5-4: ASPHALT OR CONCRETE PLANT:
8-5-5: AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE:
8-5-6: AUTOMOTIVE, HOBBY:
8-5-7: CAMPGROUND/RV PARK:
8-5-8: CARETAKER UNIT
8-5-9: CEMETERY:
8-5-10: CHILD CARE FACILITY:
8-5-11: CHURCH OR PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP:
8-5-12: CONTRACTORS YARD OR SHOP:
8-5-13: DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT:
8-5-14: DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY DUPLEX:
8-5-15: EVENTS/ENTERTAINMENT FACLITY:
8-5-16: GASOLINE STATION/GASOLINE STATION WITH CONVENIENCE STORE,
AND TRUCK STOP:
8-5-17: HOME OCCUPATION:
8-5-18: LIVE/WORK UNIT:
8-5-19: MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME GUIDELINES:
8-5-20: MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS:
8-5-21: MINING, PIT OR QUARRY AND ACCESSORY PITS:
8-5-22: MODEL HOME/OFFICE AND AMENITY ADMINSTRATIVE PERMIT:
8-5-23: MULTIPLE USE BUILDING:
8-5-24: MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING/DEVELOPMENT: Switch Multi-Family to 8-5-23
8-5-25: NURSING OR RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES:
8-5-26: PORTABLE CLASSROOM/MODULAR BUILDING:
8-5-27: PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE; PUBLIC UTILITY MAJOR, MINOR & YARD:



                                   133
8-5-28: RECYCLING CENTER:
8-5-29: RIDING ARENA OR STABLE, COMMERCIAL:
8-5-30: SECONDARY DWELLING UNIT: (change to accessory dwelling unit)
8-5-31: SHORT-TERM RENTAL:
8-5-32: STORAGE FACILITY, OUTSIDE:
8-5-33: STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE:
8-5-34: TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS:
8-5-35: TERMINAL, FREIGHT OR TRUCK:
8-5-36: VEHICLE EMISSIONS TESTING:
8-5-37: VEHICLE IMPOUND YARD:
8-5-38: VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR AND MINOR:
8-5-39: VEHICLE SALES OR RENTAL:
8-5-40: VEHICLE WASHING FACILITY:
8-5-41: VEHICLE WRECKING OR JUNK YARD:
8-5-42: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY:

8-5-301: SECONDARY ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU):

A. One Secondary Accessory Dwelling Unit Permitted: One secondary accessory dwelling unit
is permitted on the same property in conjunction with and clearly subordinate to a single-family
dwelling. The secondary accessory dwelling unit may either be attached to the primary dwelling
or detached. A detached secondary accessory dwelling unit shall count towards the maximum
allowance of accessory structures on a lot or parcel as further defined in 8-1E-1 of this title.

B. Owner Occupancy: To create and maintain a secondary accessory dwelling unit, the property
owner 0shall reside on the property for more than six (6) months in any twelve (12) month
period. The applicant for a secondary accessory dwelling unit shall demonstrate that either the
single-family dwelling or the secondary accessory unit is occupied by the owner of the property.
Owner occupancy is demonstrated by proof of homeowners exemption, title records, vehicle
registration, voter registration or other similar means. The applicant or owner shall provide a
written statement annually (12 months from date of approval) stating that the use of the
secondary accessory dwelling is continuing in compliance with this requirement. Secondary
Accessory dwelling units shall not be split or otherwise segregated in ownership from the single-
family dwelling unit, unless approved as part of a new subdivision, where setback, access and
density standards are applied.

C. Maximum Size: Detached, secondary accessory dwelling units shall be limited to a maximum
size of 50% of the footprint (including any attached garage) of the primary dwelling. There is no
size limit for an attached unit, provided that it is attached with a structure, such as a breezeway,
that is no greater than 10 feet total in length.

D. Location: The secondary accessory dwelling unit may be located within or attached to the
primary dwelling; as a detached structure; or above a detached structure, such as a garage.
Detached secondary accessory dwelling units shall be located to the side or rear of a primary
dwelling. No portion of the secondary accessory dwelling unit shall be located in front of the
primary dwelling unit and must meet all setback requirements as stated in this unified



                                                134
development code. The administrator may grant a waiver to the location of the secondary
accessory dwelling unit in specific situations provided all other regulations of this title are met.

E. Parking: At least one parking space shall be provided on site for the accessory dwelling unit in
addition to the required parking for the existing residential unit. The conversion of a covered
parking area (garage/carport) into a secondary accessory dwelling unit is not allowed unless the
required covered parking can be provided elsewhere on site.

F. Property size: The subject property must be of sufficient size to meet all side and rear setbacks
of the district without requiring a variance. If detached, a minimum of 10’ shall be required
between the accessory dwelling unit and the primary structure a minimum of ten thousand
(10,000) square feet in size.

G. Design: The secondary accessory unit shall be consistent in design with the single-family
dwelling, including roof pitch, siding, color, materials, and window treatments.

H. Prohibitions: Manufactured homes, mobile homes, and recreation vehicles shall be prohibited
for use as a secondary accessory dwelling unit.

I. Number of Occupants: The total number of occupants in the secondary accessory dwelling unit
shall not exceed two persons.

J. Street Address: The secondary accessory dwelling shall not have its own street address, unless
required by the Fire Department for emergency response purposes, and as approved by the
administrator and postmaster.

K. Additional Standards:
An existing detached accessory structure may be converted to an secondary accessory dwelling,
provided that the structure meets all applicable requirements of the Star building code, including
any applicable plumbing or electrical code requirements. A required detached garage shall not be
converted into a secondary accessory dwelling unit.

L. Emergency Access: All accessory dwelling units are subject to review and approval by the
Fire District regarding access and fire protection.

(change numbering below)
8-5-1: ANIMAL CARE FACILITY:

A. Such use shall be located at least two hundred fifty feet (250') from any residence, including
motels and hotels, except for an owner's residence. The administrator may modify these
requirements if the animals are completely housed in soundproof structures that completely
screen them from view of the abutting residential property.
B. Fencing shall be required for any outdoor use for animals. The fencing shall be a six-foot (6')
fence to secure animals and to buffer adjacent land uses.
C. Outside runs shall be operated only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M., with an attendant present on the premises at all times.



                                                 135
D. The facility owner and/or operator shall comply with all state and regulations relative to such
a facility and shall maintain housekeeping practices designed to prevent the creation of a
nuisance and to reduce noise and odor to a minimum.

8-5-2: ARTIST STUDIO:

A. All production, fabrication and assembly of materials shall be conducted within a completely
enclosed structure if adjoining a residence or a residential district.

B. If in an industrial district, accessory retail sales shall be limited to a floor area not exceeding
twenty five percent (25%) of the total enclosed area of the use. Goods sold shall be only those
produced on the site or complementary products.

8-5-3: ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT OR RECREATION FACILITY, INDOOR AND
OUTDOOR:

A. General standards:
1. All structures or outdoor recreation areas shall maintain a minimum setback of one hundred
feet (100') from any abutting residential districts.
2. No outdoor event or activity center shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of any
residential property line and shall operate outdoor uses only between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
3. Accessory uses include, but are not limited to: retail, equipment rental, restaurant and drinking
establishments may be allowed if designed to serve patrons of the use only.
4. Outdoor speaker systems shall be subject to the provisions of title 3, chapter 2, "Noise
Control", of this code.
5. May require a Vendor’s Permit, at the discretion of the administrator.

B. Additional standards for swimming pool: Any outdoor swimming pool shall be completely
enclosed within a six foot (6') non-scalable fence that meets the requirements of the city of Star
building regulations in accord with title 7 of this code.

C. Additional standards for outdoor stage or musical venue: Any use with a capacity of one
hundred (100) seats or more or within one thousand feet (1,000') of a residence or a residential
district shall be subject to approval of a conditional use permit.

8-5-4: ASPHALT OR CONCRETE PLANT:

A. Asphalt mixing and concrete batching may only be allowed as accessory uses to a pit, mine,
or quarry in an industrial zone.

B. Any structure or equipment shall be a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any
dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner or caretaker of the subject property.

C. The operation shall meet all federal, state and local standards relating to health and safety.




                                                  136
D. A plant may not be used in conjunction with an accessory pit as described within this chapter.

8-5-5: AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE:

The administrator or designee may approve alternative standards where it is determined that a
similar or greater level of security is provided.

A. A five foot (5') deep space shall be provided in front of the ATM;

B. A lighting plan will be required with the intent to ensure that adequate lighting is provided;

C. A trash receptacle not impeding access shall be immediately accessible to the ATM; and

D. At the time the ATM is removed, the structure's facade shall have a finished appearance
consistent with the existing structure. See also "Self-Service Uses", of this title.

E. This use is accessory to an approved bank or other financial institution.

8-5-6: AUTOMOTIVE, HOBBY:

A. Use prohibited from retail or wholesale sales of vehicles, automotive parts or supplies.

B. No commercial restoration, repair, storage or maintenance of motor vehicles. This use shall
not be allowed as a Home Occupation.

C. Site for hobby shall be maintained in an orderly manner, with no more than two (2)
inoperable, dismantled, or unregistered motor vehicles on site unless stored in an enclosed
structure.

D. Vehicles must be stored in the rear or side yard behind a sight obscuring fence or within a
completely enclosed structure.


8-5-7: CAMPGROUND/RV PARK:

A. Access:
1. Campground/RV park shall abut and shall have direct access from a collector or arterial road.
Plans will show roadways and driveways, including the width and type of surface.
2. Access shall be approved by the Transportation authority.

B. Design: The design shall include:
1. Specific locations of sites or units for RVs (recreational vehicles), motor homes, travel trailers
or tents.
2. Location of all structures.
3. Method of trash disposal.
4. Utility plan (water/electrical/sewer).



                                                137
C. Site Development:
1. Lighting: The campground/RV park shall be adequately lighted and follow the requirements of
outdoor lighting as provided for within this title.
2. Outdoor Speaker Systems: Outdoor speaker systems shall be subject to the provisions of title
3, chapter 2, "Noise Control", of this code.
3. Drainage: Drainage shall comply with drainage requirements of this title.
4. Water, Sewer and Electrical Outlets: Each space shall be provided with water, sewer and
electrical outlets and shall comply with all city/state codes.
5. Spaces: Each space shall contain a minimum of one thousand (1,000) square feet, shall be at
least twenty feet (20') wide and space boundaries shall be clearly defined. There shall be a
minimum of fifteen feet (15') of space between RVs/motor homes/trailers and setbacks as
established by the city.
6. Parking: Each space shall provide for off street parking and shall be graveled, paved or
provide other means for a dust free surface.
7. Number of Spaces: No greater number of RVs, motor homes or trailers shall be allowed in any
campground/RV park than the number of spaces permitted.
8. Landscaped Setback with Screening: A fifty foot (50') landscaped setback with protective
screening or fencing shall be required on property boundaries adjacent to a public right of way.
Property boundaries adjoining private property shall have a landscaped setback of twenty-five
feet (25') with protective fencing.

D. Accessory Uses and Accommodations:
1. Buildings and accessory buildings, including, but not limited to, management headquarters,
staff housing, recreational structures, laundry facilities, toilets, showers, and other sanitary
services, may be allowed subject to the following restrictions:
a. Such uses shall be restricted to the occupants of the campground/park.
b. Each campground/RV park shall provide restroom facilities that shall include both male and
female facilities with no less than two (2) bath or shower accommodations provided for each
facility. The restrooms shall provide no less than two (2) toilets to each male and female facility.
c. The structures enclosing such uses shall not be located closer than fifty feet (50') to any public
street and shall not be directly accessible from any public street.
d. Each service building floor shall be of concrete, tile or similar material, impervious to water,
and pitched to a floor drain. The structure shall be a permanent structure and meet requirements
of the current building code. All structures shall provide proper lighting within the structure
twenty-four (24) hours a day. Each building shall provide exterior lighting after dusk and before
dawn.
e. Each campground/RV park shall provide trash disposal areas for each twenty (20) spaces.
Disposal areas shall be fenced with a site obscuring fence, the height of which shall be a
minimum four feet (4') and shall be located one hundred fifty feet (150') from any space.
f. All campgrounds/parks with fifteen (15) spaces or more shall provide an open space area and
amenity constructed in a manner to provide a recreational area for occupants of the
campground/park. An additional amenity shall be provided for every additional 40-unit spaces.

E. Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any tent, RV, motor home or travel trailer to be used as
permanent living quarters. Maximum stay shall be thirty (30) calendar days for any guest. Once



                                                138
a four-week stay ends, a guest must wait thirty (30) calendar days before returning.

8-5-8: CARETAKER UNIT:

A. Use as a caretaker for a construction site. One accessory caretaker unit in a trailer or
recreational vehicle may be allowed on the construction site only for the purposes of security and
maintenance of the site.

B. Use as a caretaker unit and office with an approved conditional use permit for a storage
facility.

C. Use as an accessory use for an active farm that is 10-acres or greater in size for the purpose of
providing living quarters for a hired, seasonal worker to temporarily work the property to harvest
crops only.

D. The unit shall be completely removed at the end of the allowed time period.

8-5-9: CEMETERY:

Graves and monuments shall not be located within fifteen feet (15') from any property line.

8-5-10: CHILD CARE FACILITY:

A. General standards for all child care and adult care uses, including the classifications of child
care center; child care, family; child care, group; and child care pre-school/early learning:
1. In determining the type of child care facility, the total number of children cared for (excluding
the owner/operator's children) during the day and not the number of children at the facility at one
time, is the determining factor.
2. On site vehicle pick up, parking and turnaround areas shall be provided to ensure safe
discharge and pick up of clients.
3. The city council shall specify the maximum number of allowable clients and hours of
operation as conditions of approval.
4. The applicant or owner shall secure and maintain a basic child care license from the state of
Idaho department of health and welfare family and children's services division.
5. In residential districts or uses adjoining an adjacent residence, the hours of operation shall be
between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. This standard may be modified
through approval of a conditional use permit.
B. Additional standards for child care facilities that serve children:
1. All outdoor play areas shall be completely enclosed by minimum six foot (6') non-scalable
fence to secure against exit/entry by small children and to screen abutting properties. The fencing
material shall meet the swimming pool fence requirements of the building regulations in accord
with title 7 of this code.
2. Outdoor play equipment over six feet (6') high shall not be located in a front or side yard.
3. Outdoor play areas in residential districts adjacent to an existing residence shall not be used
after dusk.
4. If within a subdivision the number of children shall be further approved by the HOA.



                                                139
8-5-11: CHURCH OR PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP:

Uses that are accessory to churches or other places of religious worship, such as schools, child
daycare services, meeting facilities for clubs and organizations, and other similar uses not
operated primarily for the purpose of religious instruction, worship, government of the church, or
the fellowship of its congregation may be permitted to the extent the activity is otherwise
permitted in the district.

Churches conducting activities outside the normal church events are required to complete a
temporary use permit stating when and where the activity will take place and who will be in
charge of the activity.

8-5-12: CONTRACTORS YARD OR SHOP:

A. General Standards:

1. If the property is located in a residential or rural base district, all structures or outdoor storage
areas shall be located a minimum of one hundred feet (100') from any property line abutting
another property. The one hundred-foot (100') buffer from the property line shall have a
vegetative ground cover and shall be regularly maintained to prevent weed growth. All structures
and outdoor storage areas shall be depicted on the master site plan.

2. Outdoor storage areas shall be screened year-round and comply with Chapter 8 of this title.

3. The site shall not be used as an “impound yard”, or "wrecking, junk or salvage yard" as herein
defined.

4. For the purposes of this title, a contractor's yard or shop is not a home occupation.

5. The property shall have approved access from an improved public roadway for the use.

6. Maintenance of vehicles or machinery shall be incidental to the contractor's yard or shop and
the incidental use shall only include minor repair.

7. Accessory office space shall comply with this title and shall be identified on the approved site
plan.

8. Parking area improvements shall comply with the standards found in Chapter 4 of this title and
shall be delineated on the site plan or parking plan. No on street parking of vehicles or equipment
associated with the use is allowed.

9. Use of the property shall comply with Chapter 1, "Noise", of this title.

10. Hours of operation shall be limited between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. unless otherwise approved or restricted with a conditional use permit.


                                                  140
11. No retail sales associated with a contractor's yard or shop may occur on the property unless
retail sales are approved with a different use that allows retail sales.

12. A building permit may be required for the change in use or occupancy of any existing
structure, or portion thereof, used in association with a contractor's yard or shop.

13. For the duration of the approval, the use shall be subject to zoning inspection upon advanced
notice and request by the City. If a permit holder refuses to allow inspection of the premises by
the City, the approved conditional use permit may be revoked.

B. Additional Standards: Additional standards for a contractor's yard or shop permitted as a
   conditional use:

1. The following shall be considered as part of the review of an application for a conditional use
permit for a contractor's yard or shop:

       a. The proximity of existing dwellings;

       b. The number of employees;

       c. The hours and days of operation;

       d. Dust;

       e. Noise;

       f. Outdoor loading;

       g. Traffic;

       h. Landscaping and screening;

       i. Other.

2. The duration of a conditional use permit for a contractor's yard or shop shall be limited. For
uses in the agricultural or rural residential zoning districts, the conditional use permit shall expire
five (5) years following the approval date. Upon expiration of the conditional use permit, all
equipment and materials stored outdoors shall be removed within thirty (30) days from the
subject property. A new conditional use permit may be applied for to continue the use, subject to
current zoning standards. For uses in the industrial zoning district, there shall be no expiration
date.

8-5-13: DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT:

A. A drive-through establishment shall be an accessory use where the drive-through portion of
the facility (including stacking lanes, speaker and/or order area, pick up windows, and exit lanes)


                                                 141
is not immediately adjacent to the drive-through portion of another facility, or immediately
adjacent to a residential district or an existing residence, unless approved through a planned unit
development. All drive-through establishments shall require a conditional use permit unless
previously approved through a development agreement.

B. All establishments providing drive-through service shall identify the stacking lane, menu and
speaker location (if applicable), and window location on applicable permit applications.

C. A site plan shall be submitted that demonstrates safe pedestrian and vehicular access and
circulation on the site and between adjacent properties. At a minimum the plan shall demonstrate
compliance with the following standards:
1. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the public right of way
by patrons at any time;
2. The stacking lane shall be a separate lane from the circulation lanes needed for access and
parking;
3. The stacking lane shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any residential district or existing
residence;
4. Any stacking lane greater than one hundred feet (100') in length shall provide for an escape
lane;
5. A letter from the transportation authority indicating the site plan is in compliance with the
authority's standards and policies shall be required, if applicable.

D. The applicant shall provide a six-foot (6') high sight or noise obscuring fence or wall, and/or
additional landscaping where a drive-thru establishments stacking lane, speaker or window
location is intended, in order to mitigate any negative impact on an adjacent a residential use or
district. The administrator may require additional noise mitigation after the drive-thru is in
operation, should excessive noise be observed.

E. Approval from the Fire District is required for the location and access of the drive-thru
facility.
F. When immediately adjacent to any residential use or district, any portion of a drive-thru
restaurant use, including speakers, vehicle stacking and windows, excluding parking, shall be
located a minimum of one hundred feet (100'), from any abutting residential use or district.
Council may approve a waiver to this when the use is part of a Planned Unit Development or
Development Agreement. This shall not apply to a financial institution.

G. All site lighting shall be designed in a manner that eliminates fugitive lighting from
illuminating any portion of an adjacent residential use. The administrator may require additional
mitigation or modification to the site lighting if is determined that fugitive light is observed after
installation and operation begins.

H. New Drive-in establishes shall not be permitted within the designated downtown visioning
plan area of the CBD District, as may be further adopted by Council in the future. This area is
generally located from the west side of Seneca Springs Way to Center Street on State Street;
Main Street, south of State Street; Star Road, South of State Street; and Star Road north of State




                                                 142
Street.

I. All land uses within the designated downtown visioning plan area of the CBD District shall be
further defined as adopted by Council in the future.

8-5-14: DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY DUPLEX:

A. General Standards:

1. Duplexes shall require approval of a Certificate of Zoning Compliance.
2. Required parking shall be located on-site and not within the public right-of-way.
3. Approval from an active Home-Owners Association shall be required if located within a
neighborhood with current CC&R’s.

8-5-15: EVENTS/ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE:

A. General Standards:
    1. All structures or outdoor event areas shall maintain a minimum setback from any
residential districts as determined by Council.
    2. Any outdoor speaker system and amplified sound associated with the event facility shall
comply with the noise regulations of this code.
    3. All outdoor activities and events shall be scheduled so as to complete all activity by ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. All illumination shall be terminated no later than one hour after conclusion
of the event.
    4. The site shall have access from a principal or minor arterial, unless otherwise approved
by Council.
    3. A six foot (6') sight obscuring fence, wall, and/or other screening may be required in the
landscape plan for all property lines abutting a residential district.

8-5-16: GASOLINE STATION/GASOLINE STATION WITH CONVENIENCE STORE,
AND TRUCK STOP:

A. General standards:
1. When allowed as an accessory use, gasoline or diesel fuel sale facilities shall not occupy more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the subject property.
2. The total height of any overhead canopy or weather protection device shall not exceed twenty
feet (20').
3. Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but outside the fueling areas.
Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the public right of way by
patrons. Such stacking lanes shall be separate from areas required for access and parking. The
stacking lanes shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any abutting residential districts.

B. Additional standards for fuel sales facility, truck stop:
1. The use shall be located on a principal arterial, collector or near an interstate interchange.
2. The use shall be located a minimum of six hundred feet (600') from any residential district and
a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any hospital, unless located within the central



                                               143
business district, in which case a minimum buffer of one hundred feet (100’) shall be required
from the existing residential lot line to the property line of the use.

8-5-17: HOME OCCUPATION:

The following standards apply to all home occupation uses:

A. Persons Involved: No more than three (3) people other than members of the family residing
on the premises shall be engaged in such occupation.

B. Subordinate Use: The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its occupants, and no more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the dwelling shall be used in the conduct of the
home occupation.
C. Outside Appearance of Premises: There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the
building or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation.

D. Traffic: No significant traffic shall be generated by such home occupation, and any need for
parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall meet the off-street parking
requirements as specified within this title and shall not be located in a required front yard.

E. Performance Standards: No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation
which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference detectable to the
normal senses off the lot, if the occupation is conducted in a single-family residence, or outside
the dwelling unit if conducted in other than a single-family residence. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or audible interference
in any radio or television receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the
premises.
F. Storage of Materials Outdoors: No storage of materials or supplies outdoors or in any
accessory detached storage structure shall be allowed.

G. Signs: It shall not involve the use of signs and/or structures other than those permitted in the
district of which it is a part.

H. Parking of Commercial Vehicle: A home occupation shall not involve the use and parking of
a commercial vehicle.

I. Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be provided as specified, in addition to the required
off street parking for the dwelling. One paved, off-street parking space shall be provided for the
nonresident employee, plus a space for any potential clients, if applicable, and shall be improved
as per the standards of this title. No overnight parking of client or employee vehicles shall be
allowed on site or on-street.

J. Hours of Visits: All visits by clients, customers, and/or employees shall occur between the
hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.




                                                144
K. Additional Standards for All Home Occupations:
    1 HOA Approval: The applicant shall receive prior approval from the homeowner’s
       association, if one exists.
    2 The following occupations are prohibited as home occupations: service, repair or
       painting of any vehicle; commercial kennel; adult entertainment; commercial
       composting; sales, repackaging or use of hazardous materials; or any other uses not
       consistent with the applicable base district purpose statement.
    3 For the duration of an approved home occupation permit, the use shall be subject to
       zoning inspection upon advanced notice and request by the City. If a permit holder
       refuses to allow inspection of the premises by the City, the home occupation permit may
       be revoked.
    4 The home occupation shall not receive more than two (2) pick-ups or deliveries per day.

E. Maintenance and Ownership Responsibilities: All multi-family developments shall record
legally binding documents that state the maintenance and ownership responsibilities for the
management of the development, including, but not limited to, structures, parking, common
areas, and other development features.

F. Architectural standards in Chapter 8 shall be applied to all multi-family developments.

8-5-18: LIVE/WORK UNIT:

General Standards:

1. Live/Work units are allowed in the Mixed Use (MU) and Central Business District (CBD)
   zoning districts. They may also be allowed in some residential zones as part of a Planned
   Unit Development (PUD).
2. The commercial component of live/work is intended for use by the following occupations:
   accountants, architects, artists and artisans, attorneys, computer software and multimedia
   related professions, consultants, engineers, fashion, florist and greens, designers, hair stylists
   and barbers, insurance, real estate, one-on-one instructors, or similar uses. The Council may
   authorize other similar uses using reasonable discretion, as long as such other uses are
   allowed within the base zone and not otherwise precluded by law.
3. Live/work units must be attached and shall have direct access between the commercial and
   residential uses at all times, unless otherwise approved by Council. Residential areas are
   permitted above the commercial component, to the side or in the rear of the business
   component.
4. The commercial component shall be primarily operated within the unit, but may be also
   conducted in the yard, provided it meets all further requirements of this title.
5. The external access for the commercial component shall be oriented to the street and should
   have at least one external entrance/exit separate from the living space. The entrance to the
   business component shall be located on the ground level. Access to the commercial
   component of each live/work unit shall be clearly separate from the common walkways or
   entrances to the other residential units within the development, or other residential units in
   adjacent developments;
6. The commercial use shall not generate external noise, odor, glare, vibration or electrical



                                                 145
   interference detectable to the normal sensory perception by adjacent neighbors;
7. No explosive, toxic, combustible or flammable materials in excess of what would be allowed
   incidental to normal residential use shall be stored or used on the premises.
8. The commercial component as designated on the floor plan approved through the conditional
   use permit shall remain commercial and cannot be converted to residential use. The
   residential component may be converted to a commercial use in the CBD zoning district
   upon approval of a new application.
9. For buildings with commercial and residential uses that are not directly accessible to one
   another, see Multiple Use Building.

8-5-19: MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME GUIDELINES:

A. Application: Application shall be made with the city on a prescribed form. The application
shall include all information necessary to determine conformity with required development
standards including: exterior dimensions, siding material, foundation fascia material, roofing
material, eaves overhang and any other applicable information. The applicant shall also attach to
the application:
1. A copy of the manufacturer's instructions for installation of the home on permanent footings.
2. A plot plan showing existing conditions and the proposed location for the home and other
improvements at a scale of at least one-inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20').

B. Certificates and Inspection:
1. The applicant shall sign the completed application certifying that the mobile or manufactured
home meets the required development standards, and that site development shall be in
accordance with said standards, and the plot plan submitted stating that once the mobile or
manufactured home is permanently affixed, the applicant shall comply with the requirement for
the home to be declared as real property for taxation purposes. These certifications shall be made
prior to the moving of the home to the building site.
2. Following application and plot plan approval by the building official, the official may issue a
building permit for the footings and foundation. Upon satisfactory inspection of the footings and
foundation for the attachment of the mobile or manufactured home, the building official shall
verify, in writing, that all development standards have been met as certified by the applicant. The
home may then be attached to the foundation in accordance with the manufacturer's instruction,
city ordinances for permanent utility connections, and other building requirements.
3. Prior to occupancy, a final inspection shall be made to assure proper attachment of the home
to the foundation and placement of a proper foundation fascia.

C. Development Standards:
1. Requirements: The use of a manufactured or mobile home as a permanent residential dwelling
on an individual lot shall be permitted in any zoning district under this title which permits
installation of a single-family site-built dwelling, provided the following standards are met. The
home or home site:
a. Is multi-section and at least twenty feet (20') wide.
b. Has a minimum floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet.
c. Has roofing materials which are generally acceptable for site-built housing. Any roofing
material may be used, provided such material has the appearance of a nonmetallic shingle, shake



                                               146
or tile roof. Roofs shall also have a minimum slope of twenty five percent (25%) (3:12) and
overhanging eaves.
d. Has siding materials which are generally acceptable for site-built housing. Any siding material
may be used, provided such material has the appearance of wood, masonry or horizontal metal
siding. Reflection from horizontal metal siding shall be no greater than that from siding coated
with white, gloss enamel.
e. Has a foundation of concrete or other material allowed by the international building code for
site-built homes which is aesthetically compatible with the manufactured home and having the
appearance of site-built construction. This means the fascia shall be an extension of the siding or
be of materials having the appearance of site-built foundations such as brick, concrete or
concrete block.
f. Is permanently affixed per manufacturer's instructions. Footings shall be of poured masonry
extending twenty-four inches (24") below grade.
g. Has a crawl space with the following minimum measurements:
(1) Eighteen inches (18") of clearance;
(2) Twelve inches (12") of clearance under beams; and
(3) An eighteen inch by twenty-four-inch (18" x 24") door.
h. Complies with all applicable lot size, setback, and other requirements of the zoning district in
which it is to be located.
i. Provided two (2) off street parking spaces and shall be improved with such material to provide
a durable and dust free surface.
j. Has a single car garage, or a carport with an attached enclosed storage room.
k. Provides right of way improvements in the same manner as site-built construction, in
accordance with city policy.

D. Rehabilitation Standards: All mobile homes must meet the rehabilitation standards as set forth
in Idaho Code title 44.

E. Accessory Structures: Accessory structures to mobile or manufactured housing shall be
constructed in compliance with the standards specified by the international building code, and
the department of housing and urban development standards. Structures shall be aesthetically
compatible with the home to which they are associated.

F. Nonconforming Manufactured Homes: A manufactured or mobile home which has legally
been placed and maintained upon an individual lot prior to the effective date hereof shall be a
legal nonconforming use. Such manufactured or mobile homes shall not be relocated within the
city without conforming to all applicable provisions contained herein.

G. Shall comply with all floodplain requirements, if applicable.

8-5-20: MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARKS:
A. Standards:
1. Placement of Homes or Buildings, Distance: Manufactured or mobile homes shall not be
placed any closer than fifteen feet (15') to another manufactured or mobile home or building.
2. Accessory Structures, Distance: All accessory structures shall not be located any closer than
fifteen feet (15') to another manufactured or mobile home or building which shall include, but



                                               147
not be limited to, structures attached to or located adjacent to a manufactured or mobile home
such as awnings, carports, garages, porches or steps.
3. Adjoining Residential District; Yard: Where the manufactured or mobile home park
boundaries adjoin a residential district without an intervening street, alley or other permanent
open space at least twenty feet (20') in width, a yard of at least twenty feet (20') in minimum
dimension shall be provided. Such yard may be used for open space but shall not contain parking
areas, carports, recreational shelters, storage structures, or any other buildings.
4. Screening Along Park Borders: A screening wall or vegetation screening along the borders of
the manufactured or mobile home park shall be provided.
5. Yard Size: An outdoor living or yard area shall be provided for each manufactured or mobile
home. Such areas shall be at least ten percent (10%) of the individual lot but in no case shall such
area be less than three hundred (300) square feet.
6. Compliance with Zoning And Floodplain Regulations: All manufactured or mobile home
parks shall comply with all other applicable requirements of the zoning district and the
requirements of the flood area regulations.
7. Street Standards: Manufactured or mobile home parks shall comply with the standards set by
the local transportation authority.
8. Exterior Lighting: The park shall provide lighting at the entrance and other locations as may
be determined by the administrator, necessary for public safety and welfare. Lights are to be
installed that shall not obstruct the visibility of any oncoming traffic or trespass onto other
properties. Lighting shall meet all requirements of this title relating to dark skies.
9. Drainage: Shall comply with ordinances of the city.
10. Common or Open Areas: All parks shall provide an open area at a ratio of 200 square feet per
unit space for recreational purposes. Such areas shall provide playground equipment and other
amenities for the youth residing in the park.
11. Recreational Buildings: All parks shall provide one recreational building per fifty (50) units
to provide an area for family gatherings.
12. Recreational Vehicle Parking: All parks with fifteen (15) spaces or more shall provide one or
more parking areas for recreational vehicles for the occupants of the park. No such parking area
shall be used or occupied for commercial purpose or by those not residing in the park. Such
parking area shall meet the criteria outlined within this title.
13. Manufactured homes shall meet the minimum residential design standards as set forth in
Chapter 8 of this title.

8-5-21: MINING, PIT OR QUARRY AND ACCESSORY PITS:

A mine, pit or quarry that meets the standards of subsection C of this section shall be considered
an accessory pit and shall be reviewed as a temporary use. Any other pit, mine, or quarry shall be
reviewed as a conditional use.

A. General Use Standards:
1. All operations shall be subject to accepted safety conditions for the type of excavation being
performed.
2. Asphalt mixing and concrete batching may only be allowed as accessory uses to a mine, pit, or
quarry in an industrial area.
3. Extraction, movement, or stockpiling within the required yards shall be prohibited. The tops



                                                148
and toes of cut and fill slopes shall remain outside the required yards.
4. Areas where equipment is stored shall be deemed outdoor storage areas and shall meet all
standards of this title. Such storage areas shall be constructed and maintained to prevent
chemicals from discharging into surface or ground waters. Such chemicals shall include, but not
be limited to, petroleum products, antifreeze, and lubricants.
5. The extraction area shall be watered daily to reduce dust impacts to surrounding properties.
Haul roads shall have a durable and dust free surface and shall be graded to drain all surface
water from the haul roads.
6. The mine, pit, or quarry shall comply with the regulations of flood hazards of this title, if
applicable.
7. For any mine, pit, or quarry requiring a conditional use approval, the applicant shall provide
addresses for all property owners within one thousand feet (1,000') of any property boundary of
the proposed site and any additional area that may be substantially impacted by the use, as
determined by the administrator.
8. The storage and/or disposal of solid waste on the proposed site shall be prohibited.
9. Upon reclamation of the final phase, all temporary structures shall be removed from the
property, except for property line fences or walls. Any contaminated soils shall be properly
recycled or disposed.
10. Truck routes and hauling times may be limited by Council to accommodate bus routes and
school hours.

B. General Design and Reclamation Standards:
1. The applicant shall provide documentation (from the appropriate agency) that the proposed
mine, pit, or quarry operation and reclamation plans comply with federal and state regulations in
regard to air and water quality and site reclamation.
2. For a mine, pit, or quarry where the excavation area results in a pond, the following standards
shall apply:
a. The extraction areas shall be designed to create a meandering edge.
b. The applicant shall provide written documentation from Idaho fish and game that the proposed
pond is designed to create viable fish and/or wildlife habitat.
c. The applicant shall provide documentation from Central District Health department that the
proposed pond shall not cause septic leach fields on abutting properties to fail.
d. For the purposes of this section, a "pond" shall be defined as any mine, pit, or quarry area
where the rehabilitation plan results in an area that contains water to within six feet (6') of the
surface year-round, based on the base elevation.
3. Any riparian vegetation disturbed as part of the operation shall be replaced at a ratio of two to
one (2:1). Replacement vegetation shall be native plant materials and shall meet all appropriate
requirements of this title.
4. The applicant or owner shall comply with all requirements of "Best Management Practices For
Mining In Idaho", published by the Idaho department of lands.
5. The pond shall be aeriated.
6. Approval from Idaho Department of Lands and Idaho Department of Water Resources shall be
required for all ponds.

C. Standards For Accessory Pit Approval: The purpose of this use is to allow for gravel
extraction and removal on a limited basis for the sole purpose of creating a water feature: 1)



                                                149
during the construction of an approved subdivision or development, or 2) a onetime creation of
water feature(s) on certain, larger acreage parcels. The use shall be processed as a temporary use
and shall meet the following:
1. The property has not received previous approval for a mine, pit, or quarry as a temporary use.
2. The maximum area of the extraction site for a water feature in a new subdivision or
development shall be determined during the approval process for the development after taking
into consideration issues including, but not limited to, no net loss mitigation. All other parcels
shall have a maximum pond area no greater than ten percent (10%) for parcels ten (10) acres or
less, and no greater than twenty percent (20%) for parcels over ten (10) acres of the gross area of
the property.
3. The minimum parcel size for all properties other than new subdivisions and developments,
shall be one (1) acres.
4. The proposed extraction activities for a subdivision or development shall be completed within
two (2) years from commencement, unless additional time is granted by council. All other
proposed extraction activities shall be completed within two (2) years from commencement.
5. The mine, pit, or quarry shall meet the standards in subsections A and B of this section.
6. Stockpiles shall be a maximum of fifteen feet (15') in height.
7. All operations shall take place between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and dusk or six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. (whichever is earlier) Monday through Friday.
8. Asphalt and/or cement plants shall be prohibited on site, unless approved by Council as a
conditional use permit.
9. Rock crushing shall be allowed as part of an accessory pit only as a separate conditional use
permit approved by Council.
10. The pond shall be aerated.

D. Additional Standards for Conditional Use Approval:
1. The pit, mine, or quarry shall meet the standards in subsections A and B of this section.
2. The approved site plan shall include adequate parking and loading areas to accommodate the
peak number of vehicles. Such areas shall not be within the required yards.
3. Rock crushing and/or asphalt mixing, and concrete batching may be allowed as an accessory
use only through this conditional use approval process.
4. The applicant shall show the extraction and reclamation phasing plan on the approved site
plan.
5. The reclamation plan for each phase shall be implemented as soon as the subject area is
depleted of resources or when the allowed time has ended (whichever occurs first).
6. The conditional use approval shall consider and/or establish a time frame for the extraction of
material. For any proposal where the applicant requests an extraction period greater than two (2)
years, the council shall review the status of the mine, pit, or quarry after 1.5 years and consider
amendments or additions to the approval.

8-5-22: MODEL HOME, OFFICE, AND AMENITY ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT:

A permit allowing issuance of a building permit for one or more residential dwelling model
homes and/or sales offices, and/or community amenity prior to recordation of a final plat. The
administrator may approve a building permit(s) when all public safety items have been addressed
to the satisfaction of emergency services, all bonding for improvement requirements are



                                                150
provided, as allowed for in Section 8-1C-1, and all other public agencies having jurisdiction have
approved the development. At no time shall final occupancy be issued until all permanent
improvements are in place, unless as bonded for.

A. Standards

       1) In addition to all bonding requirements, approval may include, but may not be limited
          to, the following details:
               a. Temporary street signage;
               b. Temporary streetlights;
               c. Street addressing for emergency services and building inspections;
               d. Temporary fire flows;
               e. Snow removal plan;
               f. Star Fire District approval.

8-5-23: MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING/DEVELOPMENT:

Multi-family developments with multiple properties shall be considered as one property for the
purpose of implementing the standards set forth in this section.

A. Storage of Recreational Vehicles: No recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, boats or other
personal recreation vehicles shall be stored on the site unless provided for in a separate,
designated and screened area, and approved as part of the development.
B. Developments with Twenty Units Or More: Developments with twenty (20) units or more
shall provide the following:
1. A property management office.
2. A maintenance storage area.
3. A map of the development at an entrance or convenient location for those entering the
development.

C. Open Space Requirement (see also Chapter 8 “Architectural Review”).
1. The total land area of all common open space shall equal or exceed fifteen percent (15%) of
the gross land area of the development. Ten percent (10%) of that area shall be usable open
space.
2. Private Open Space: In addition to the common open space and site amenity requirements of
this title, a minimum of eighty (80) square feet of additional, private, usable open space shall be
provided for each residential unit not planned as single-family detached. This requirement can be
satisfied through porches, patios, decks, and enclosed yards. Landscaping, entryway and other
accessways do not count toward this requirement.

D. Amenities
1. The number of amenities shall depend on the size of multi-family development as follows:
a. A multi-family development with less than twenty (20) units, two (2) amenities shall be
provided from two (2) separate amenity categories.
b. A multi-family development between twenty (20) and seventy-five (75) units, three (3)
amenities shall be provided, with one from each amenity category.



                                               151
c. A multi-family development with seventy-five (75) units or more, four (4) amenities shall be
provided, with at least one from each amenity category.
d. A multi-family development with more than one hundred (100) units, the Council shall require
additional amenities commensurate to the size of the proposed development.
e. 50% of the amenities shall be constructed as part of phase one for all multi-phase
developments. Additional amenity phasing shall be determined by the administrator.
e f. All multi-family developments greater than 75 units shall be required to provide a swimming
pool with a changing room and restroom facilities, and an enlarged deck. The minimum pool size
shall be equal to the following:

       (1) Developments between 75 and 149 units = 1,600 square feet
       (2) Developments between 150 and 299 units = 2,400 square feet
       (3) Developments over 300 units = minimum of 3,600 square feet

E. Any required traffic impact study shall be submitted and accepted by the appropriate
transportation authority prior to submittal of an application. A hearing date before the Council
shall not be scheduled until the traffic impact study has been approved and the transportation
authority has issued a staff report on the development application.

2 E. Amenity Categories. The council may consider other amenities in addition to those listed
below.

a. Clubhouse.
b. Fitness facilities -Indoor/Outdoor.
c. Enclosed bike storage.
d. Public art.
e. Covered bus stops as approved by the School District or Regional Transportation Authority.
f. Ponds or water features.
g. Plaza.
h. Recreation areas.
i. Pool.
j. Walking trails and/or bike paths.
k. Children's play structures.
l. Sports courts.
m. Natural Areas (as approved by Council).
n. RV parking for the use of the residents within the development.
o. Additional open space in excess of 5% usable space.
p. School and/or Fire station sites if accepted by the district.
q. Pedestrian or bicycle circulation system amenities meeting the following requirements:
(1) The system is not required for sidewalks adjacent to public right of way;
(2) The system connects to existing or planned pedestrian or bicycle routes outside the
development; and
(3) The system is designed and constructed in accord with standards set forth by the city of Star

E F. Maintenance and Ownership Responsibilities: All multi-family developments shall record
legally binding documents that state the maintenance and ownership responsibilities for the



                                               152
management of the development, including, but not limited to, structures, parking, common
areas, and other development features.
F. Any required traffic impact study shall be submitted and accepted by the appropriate
transportation authority prior to submittal of an application. A hearing date before the Council
shall not be scheduled until the traffic impact study has been approved and the transportation
authority has issued a staff report on the development application.


F G. Architectural standards in Chapter 8 shall be applied to all multi-family developments.

G H. Signs:
(1) Addressing Signage. The following shall apply to all multi-family developments:
       A. Approval from Fire District and Addressing Authority.
       B. The sign(s) shall be front or back lit from dusk to dawn.
       C. Sign materials shall be of wood, plastic or metal.
       D. Minimum size of the plan view diagram portion of the sign shall be 3’x3’ or presented
       at a larger size to be easily readable and visible from the distance of the intended viewer.
       E. Text on the map shall be of a contrasting color to the background of the sign.
       F. Maps can be produced as a digital print on a variety of substrates such as vinyl, paper,
       or a laminated graphic. The method of production needs to be compatible with the
       environmental conditions as well as with the structure that the map is to be integrated
       with.
       G. Isometric or Three-Dimensional Signs are allowed if approved by the addressing
       agent.
       H. Orientation: Vehicle oriented maps should always be positioned in the direction that a
       vehicle is facing.
       I. The sign(s) shall be inspected annually by the owner/property manager for damage,
       visibility and legibility and appearance issues.
       J. Nearby vegetation should be kept back from the sign(s) and low plantings used as to
       not block the sign when fully grown.

FIGURE 8-5-20(a)
ADDRESSING SIGN STYLE




                                               153
8-5-24: MULTIPLE USE BUILDING:

A structure that blends commercial and residential uses together into one building. Multiple use
buildings may be either commercial use downstairs with a single or multiple residential units
upstairs, or larger scale with multiple commercial uses downstairs and multiple residential, or
residential and commercial uses upstairs. Individual uses may be individually leased or rented or
may be developed as condominiums for individual ownership. See Live/Work Unit for
commercial with residential directly attached and accessible to each other.

A. General Standards:

1. The use shall require a Conditional Use Permit approval from City Council, unless approved
as part of a Planned Unit Development or Development Agreement, and Certificate of Zoning
Compliance (CZC) and Design Review approval.

2. Private Open Space: A minimum of sixty (60) square feet of private, usable open space shall
be provided for each residential unit. This requirement can be satisfied through porches, patios,
or decks.
3. All Fire District requirements, including fire suppression, addressing and access shall be met.

4. A sign permit shall be required for any commercial signage.

5. Parking requirements for both commercial and residential uses shall be met. This includes a
minimum of one (1) covered parking space for each residential unit.

8-5-25: NURSING OR RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES:

A. General standards: If the use results in more than ten (10) persons occupying a dwelling at
any one time, the applicant or owner shall concurrently apply for a change of occupancy as
required by the building code in accord with title 7 of this code.
1. The owner and/or operator of the facility shall secure and maintain a license from the state of
Idaho department of health and welfare facility standards division.

B. Additional standards for uses providing care to children and juveniles under the age of
eighteen (18) years:
1. All outdoor play areas shall be completely enclosed by a minimum six foot (6') non-scalable
fence to secure against exit/entry by small children and to screen abutting properties. The fencing
material shall meet the swimming pool fence requirements of the building code in accord with
this code.
2. Outdoor play equipment over six feet (6') high shall not be located in a front yard or within
any required yard.
3. Outdoor play areas in residential districts or uses adjacent to an existing residence shall not be
used after dusk.

C. Additional standards for uses providing care to patients who suffer from Alzheimer's disease,


                                                154
dementia or other similar disability that may cause disorientation: A barrier with a minimum
height of six feet (6'), along the perimeter of any portion of the site that is accessible to these
patients shall be provided. The fencing material shall meet the swimming pool fence
requirements of the building code in accordance with this code.

8-5-26: PORTABLE CLASSROOM/MODULAR BUILDING:

A. General standards:
1. A Certificate of Zoning Compliance shall be required for each new structure requested.
Multiple structures may be included under one application at the time of submittal.
2. All structures shall meet all requirements of the Building Department and Fire District prior to
issuance of Certificate of Occupancy.
2. Structures that will be located for more than 2-years shall be painted to match the colors of the
primary building.
3. Each approved structure is subject to a new Reverification of Certificate of Zoning
Compliance every 5-years.

8-5-27: PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE; PUBLIC UTILITY MAJOR, MINOR AND
YARD:
A. Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of vehicles (including, but not
limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps, garages for minor repair) may be allowed.

B. Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval from the Idaho division
of environmental quality, Idaho department of water resources, and Star joint fire protection
district.

C. No portion of the outside storage areas and/or outside activity areas may be visible from any
highway, interstate, gateway corridor, principal arterial, or minor arterial as herein defined.

D. All driveways into and through the facility and any open area with a driving surface shall be
surfaced with a dustless material including, but not limited to, asphalt, concrete, pavers or bricks.

E. For any use requiring the storage of fuel or hazardous material, the use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a hospital or school.
8-5-28: RECYCLING CENTER:

A. The site shall be screened from the street(s) by a screen composed of a masonry or concrete
wall planted on the exterior side with a vegetative screen. The screen shall be of sufficient height
so that no storage containers shall be visible above the required screening. This shall include
recycling program drop-off areas and facilities.

8-5-29: RIDING ARENA OR STABLE, COMMERCIAL:

A. Any establishment that meets one or more of the following criteria shall be deemed a
commercial use and shall require conditional use approval:




                                                  155
1. The riding arena is open to the general public, a homeowners' association or a club.
2. The riding arena is for private use but is enclosed within a structure that exceeds twenty-four
feet (24') in height and/or the total area of the structure exceeds two thousand (2,000) square feet.
3. The riding arena can be rented by an individual or group.
4. Spectator seating for more than fifty (50) people is provided at the arena.
5. Retail sales accessory to the stable or riding arena are conducted on site.
6. Group lessons are provided to the general public for a fee.

B. All commercial riding arenas and commercial stables shall provide sufficient parking and
   turnaround areas for horse trailers. Such areas shall be designed to preclude vehicles from
   backing out into a roadway.

C. The minimum property size for commercial stables or commercial riding arenas shall be five
    (5) acres.

D. Only off-site catering is permitted and must be approved by the Central District Health
   Department.

8-5-31: SHORT-TERM RENTAL:

A. The property where a short-term rental exists shall provide a minimum of one (1) additional,
   paved, off-street parking space in addition to the required spaces for the principal use. On-
   street parking shall be prohibited.
B. Short-term rentals shall not modify the look or character of the principal permitted use in any
   way.
C. Short-term rentals may be subject to HOA and CC&R requirements.

8-5-32: STORAGE FACILITY, OUTDOOR:

A. Materials: Materials shall not be stored within the required yards. Stored items shall not block
sidewalks or parking areas and may not impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic.

B. Site: The site shall not be used as vehicle wrecking or junk yard as herein defined.
C. Additional Standards for Outside Storage As An Accessory Use: Accessory outside storage
shall be allowed for approved uses subject to the following standards:
1. Outside storage of materials for commercial or industrial uses shall be limited to those items
owned or used by the business.
2. Outside storage of materials for a residential development or recreational vehicle parking shall
be only for recreational vehicles or personal recreation items of the owners and/or tenants. The
storage area shall not be rented, subletted or leased to outside parties.
        a. Subdivision Storage Areas: Outdoor storage areas that are designed as part of a new
        subdivision shall be reviewed as part of the preliminary plat or planned unit development
        application and shall meet the requirements of this article.
3. Outside storage of materials for individual residential properties shall be screened with a six-
foot (6') site obscuring fence.




                                                156
D. Storage Of Fuel Or Hazardous Material: For any use requiring the storage of fuel or
hazardous material, the use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a
hospital or school and shall not be stored in any residential district.

E. The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set forth in this title.

F. Storage space areas shall not be further rented, leased, let, or otherwise used as a commercial
business.

G. Screening: Outdoor storage areas shall be screened according to the regulations of Chapter 8
of this title.

8-5-33: STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE:
A. Storage units and/or storage areas shall not be used as dwellings or as a commercial or
industrial place of business. The manufacture or sale of any item by a tenant from or at a self-
service storage facility is specifically prohibited.

B. On site auctions of unclaimed items by the storage facility owners shall be allowed.

C. The distance between structures shall be a minimum of twenty-five feet (25').

D. The storage facility shall be completely fenced, walled, or enclosed. Where abutting a
residential district or public road, chain-link shall not be allowed as fencing material.
E. If abutting a residential district, the facility hours of public operation shall be limited to seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.

F. No structure, facility, drive lane, parking area, nor loading area, shall be located adjacent to a
residential district without a sound attenuation wall or other sound buffering measures.

G. If the applicant provides a sound attenuation wall, landscaping buffers may be reduced to ten
feet (10').

H. The facility shall have at least one additional point of access, for emergency purposes, as
determined by the Star Fire District.

I. All outdoor storage of material shall be maintained in an orderly manner so as not to create a
public nuisance. Materials shall not be stored within the required yards. Stored items shall not
block sidewalks or parking areas and may not impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic.

J. The site shall not be used as vehicle wrecking or junk yard as herein defined.

K. For any use requiring the storage of fuel or hazardous material, the use shall be located a
minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from a hospital or school.

L. The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set forth in this title.




                                                  157
8-5-34: TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS:

A. Housing of Family Member: Temporary living quarters are permitted if needed to house a
member of the owner's immediate family. The need for temporary living quarters for a family
member shall be justified for reasons of health, employment, or upkeep on the property.

B. Temporary use during construction: Temporary living quarters may be permitted for
temporary living by the owner of an existing dwelling while a new dwelling is being constructed
on the same property, subject to compliance with all building and safety requirements. The
temporary living quarters shall be removed prior to occupancy permit for the new dwelling.

B C. Connection to Water and Wastewater Facilities: The temporary living quarters shall be
connected to city services provided by the sewer and water district. Applicant shall provide the
city with a letter from the sewer and water district of an estimated date when the services will be
available and the agreement by applicant to pay for services. Until services are available, a letter
from Central district health will be required for temporary hookup to individual water and sewer
services.

C D. Recreational vehicles shall not be used as a temporary living quarters.

D E. One Living Quarters Permitted: No more than one temporary living quarters shall be
permitted on a property.

E F. Termination of Use; Removal: Temporary living quarters and any attached structures shall
be removed from the property within thirty (30) days of termination of the authorized use or
expiration of the approval period.

F G. Term Of Approval: Temporary living quarters may be approved for a period not exceeding
two (2) years. The applicant or owner may reapply biennially, not to exceed a total of six (6)
years (either consecutive or nonconsecutive) after the initial approval.


8-5-35: TERMINAL, FREIGHT OR TRUCK:

A. The use shall be located with direct access on a principal arterial or near an interstate
interchange, and with no access through residential streets.

B. No outdoor activity area shall be located within three hundred feet (300') from any residential
district.

C. The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any hospital or school.

D. Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of vehicles (including, but not
limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps, tire shop, garages for minor repair) may be
allowed.




                                                 158
E. Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval from the Idaho division
of environmental quality, Idaho department of water resources, and the Star joint fire protection
district.

8-5-36: VEHICLE EMISSIONS TESTING:

A. Applicant shall provide a notarized consent of the property owner.

B. Parking and access areas shall be paved.

C. Applicant shall apply for a certificate of zoning compliance (CZC), any required building
department and vendor permits.

D. Signs shall be allowed on the structure and shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area
and must be approved with a sign permit application. Additional signs may be allowed within an
existing development only if approved under a separate sign permit application by the
development owner.

E. Compressors, fans, pumps and other motorized equipment shall be located or shielded to
reduce noise levels to adjoining properties.

F. Adequate off-street parking shall be provided to serve the use. The use shall not remove any
existing required parking for other uses on the property.
G. Hours of operation shall be between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.

H. If operations occur after dark, all lighting requirements per this title shall be required.

I. Site shall remain clean and clear of trash and refuse at all times. A trash receptacle shall be
present at the site of operations.

J. Vehicle emissions testing shall be limited to a structure. Vans or other vehicles shall not be
allowed. The structure shall be constructed of wood with a pitched roof, painted, and kept in
good condition at all times.

K. The use may be approved for up to a five (5) year period, at which time the structure and all
associated items related to the use shall be removed from the property, unless a new application
is submitted prior to the expiration of the use.

8-5-37: VEHICLE IMPOUND YARD:

A. Outside storage and outside activity areas shall comply with this title. The closed vision fence
or wall and screening materials shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in height.

B. No portion of the vehicle impound yard, outside storage areas and/or outside activity areas
may be visible from any highway, interstate, gateway corridor, principal arterial, or minor
arterial as herein defined.



                                                 159
C. All materials or parts shall be stored and located within the closed vision fence or walled area.
No vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed the height of the fence or wall.
D. The use shall not constitute a junkyard as herein defined.

E. The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential use or
district.

8-5-38: VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR AND MINOR:

A. Where adjoining a residential property or district, all repair activities (including, but not
limited to, open pits and lifts) shall occur within an enclosed structure.

B. Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a closed vision fence, wall, or
screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not be visible from street.

8-5-39: VEHICLE SALES OR RENTAL AND SERVICE:

A. Vehicle repair may be allowed as an accessory use, subject to the standards for vehicle repair,
major and minor in the district where the use is located.
B. Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a closed vision fence, wall, or
screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not be visible from any street.

8-5-40: VEHICLE WASHING FACILITY:

A. A site plan shall be submitted that demonstrates safe pedestrian and vehicular access and
circulation on the site and between adjacent properties. At a minimum, the plan shall
demonstrate compliance with the following standards:
1. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the public right of way
by patrons. The stacking lane shall be a separate lane from the circulation lanes needed for
access and parking.
2. The stacking lane shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any residential district or existing
residence.
3. A letter from the transportation authority indicating the site plan is in compliance with the
highway district standards and policies shall be required.

B. Within the industrial districts, a vehicle washing facility shall be allowed only as an accessory
use to a gasoline or diesel fuel sales facility for use by non-passenger vehicles. The vehicle
washing facility shall be limited in capacity to a single vehicle. The intent is to discourage
facilities that cater to passenger vehicles, in this district.

C. Any use shall be located a minimum one hundred feet (100'), or as otherwise approved, from
any abutting residential use or district, and shall be limited in operating hours from six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.

8-5-41: VEHICLE WRECKING YARD, JUNK YARD, OR SALVAGE YARD:



                                                 160
A. Outside storage and outside activity areas shall comply with this title. The fence or wall and
screening materials shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in height.
B. No portion of the vehicle impound yard, outside storage areas and/or outside activity areas
may be visible from any highway, interstate, principal arterial, or minor arterial.

C. All materials or parts shall be stored and located within a closed vision fence or walled area.
No vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed the height of the fence or wall.

D. All structures or outside activity areas shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from any property line. The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from
any residential use or district.

E. An area for processing vehicles as they are brought to the site shall be designated on a site
plan. The processing area shall be an impermeable surface that has a means to collect and
properly dispose of oils and fluids in the vehicles.

F. The applicant shall obtain all necessary permits for the storage of materials on the site,
including, but not limited to, oil, hazardous waste, and tires.
G. No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a vehicle wrecking yard, any portion of which
is within one thousand feet (1,000') of the nearest edge of the right of way and visible from any
highway, interstate, principal arterial, or minor arterial as herein defined. See Idaho Code section
40-313.
8-5-42: WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY:

A. Purpose: The purpose of this section is to accommodate the communications needs of its
residents and businesses while at the same time protecting the safety, aesthetic appeal and
general welfare of the community. Furthermore, it is the purpose of this section to regulate the
impact of communications towers within the city limits and to provide for the needs of the public
and businesses for wireless communications. The intent of this section is to:
1. Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to the residents and businesses
of the City of Star;
2. Minimize the adverse visual effects of communications towers and other similar structures
through careful design standards;
3. Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from the structural failure of towers and other
such structures through structural standards and setback requirements; and
4. Require the collocation of new wireless communication equipment, when possible, in order to
reduce the number of towers required to serve the city.

B. Applicability: The following provisions shall apply to any construction, installation, addition
to or increase in the height of any wireless communications tower.

C. Process:
1. Amateur radio antennas that meet the standards as set forth in subsection E of this section shall
require administrative approval.
2. Collocation of new equipment on an existing tower shall require a certificate of zoning



                                                161
compliance prior to installation.
3. Stealth towers and/or new antennas that meet the standards as set forth in this chapter shall
require a certificate of zoning compliance prior to installation.
4. Wireless communication facilities shall require a conditional use permit in all districts prior to
installation.
5. Antennas used for any type of public safety shall require a certificate of zoning compliance.

D. Required Documentation: The applicant shall provide the following documentation with the
request for approval of a wireless communication facility:
1. Documentation from a qualified and licensed engineer showing that the proposed facility will
be in compliance with the FCC standards regarding radio frequency (RF) emissions.
2. A report from a qualified and licensed structural engineer that describes the tower height and
design. The report shall include the following: a cross section of the tower, elevations that
document the height above grade for all potential mounting positions for collocated antennas,
and the minimum separation distances between antennas. The report must also include a
description of the tower's capacity regarding the number and type of antennas that it can
accommodate and what precautions the applicant will take to avoid interference with established
public safety telecommunications. This report must be stamped by the structural engineer and
include other information necessary to evaluate the request.
3. For all wireless communication facilities, a letter of intent committing the tower owner and
his, her or its successors to allow the shared use of the tower, as required by this section, if an
additional user agrees in writing to meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
4. A statement regarding compliance with regulations administered and enforced by the federal
aviation administration (FAA).
5. Propagation charts showing existing and proposed transmission coverage at the subject site
and within an area large enough to provide an understanding of why the facility needs to be in
the chosen location.
6. A written analysis demonstrating that the proposed site is the most appropriate site within the
immediate area. The analysis shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
a. Description of the surrounding area, including topography;
b. Natural and manmade impediments, if any, that would obstruct adequate wireless telephone
transmissions;
c. Physical site constraints, if any, that would preclude construction of a wireless
communications facility on any other site;
d. Technical limitations of the system that limit siting options.

E. Amateur Radio Antenna Standards: Pursuant to the FCC's preemptive ruling PRB 1, towers
supporting amateur radio antennas (i.e., ham radio antennas) of less than thirty-five feet (35') in
height are permitted; antennas with a height in excess of thirty-five feet (35') shall require a
conditional use permit. No towers or antennas shall be placed within the front, side or street side
yard.

F. Stealth Tower Standards:
1. The facility shall be hidden or camouflaged.
2. The facility shall not exceed the height limitation of the district in which it is located.




                                                  162
G. Design Standards: All new communications towers shall meet the following minimum design
standards:
1. Towers and antennas shall be required to blend into the surrounding environment by paint or
other camouflaging architectural treatment, except in instances where the color is dictated by
federal or state authorities such as the federal aviation administration. All metal shall be
corrosive resistant or treated to prevent corrosion.
2. All new communication towers shall be of monopole design, unless the decision-making body
determines that an alternative design (i.e., lattice, guywire, etc.) would be appropriate because of
location or necessity.
3. No part of any antenna, disk, array or other such item attached to a communications tower
shall be permitted to overhang any part of the right of way or property line.
4. The base of all towers and the facility shall be surrounded by a sight obscuring security fence,
in accord with the underlying zone.
5. All tower facilities shall include a landscape buffer. The buffer shall consist of a landscape
strip of at least five feet (5') wide outside the perimeter of the compound. A minimum of fifty
percent (50%) of the plant material shall be of an evergreen variety. In locations of where the
visual impact of the tower is minimal, the administrator may waive this requirement through the
alternative compliance procedure in accord with chapter 1, "Administration", of this title.
6. All climbing pegs within the bottom twenty feet (20') of the tower shall be removed except
when the tower is being serviced.
7. All lighting on the tower, other than may be required by the FAA, shall be prohibited.
8. No tower shall have constructed thereon, or attached thereto, in any way, any platform,
catwalk, crow's nest, or like structure, except during periods of construction or repair. No signs
or banners shall be attached to any portion of a wireless communications tower.

H. Setback Standards: If the tower does not exceed the maximum building height allowed for the
zoning of the land upon which it is to be placed, the tower shall meet the setback requirement for
that zone, with the following exceptions:
1. If the property is located next to a residential district, the setback requirements shall be one
hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the height of the tower.
2. If the tower exceeds the maximum height allowance for the district, the setback requirements
shall be one foot (1') for every ten feet (10') of tower height, in addition to the district's setback
requirements.
3. If the tower is not constructed to meet the standards set forth by the Telecommunications
Industry Association Electronic Industries Association (TIA/EIA) 222 revision F standards
entitled "Structural Standards For Steel Antenna Supporting Structures" the setback requirement
shall be one foot (1') for every foot in height of the tower. This shall be measured from all
property lines and shall be referred to as the "fall zone". Only the accessory equipment building
shall be permitted to be located within the fall zone.
4. Communication towers must be set back from all public owned right of way by a minimum of
two (2) times the height of the tower to be installed. If this setback requirement is in conflict with
any other setback requirement, the setback shall be the greater distance.
5. All communication towers shall be set back at least three (3) times the height of the tower
from all principal arterial streets.

I. Collocation Standards:



                                                 163
1. A proposal for a new commercial communication tower shall not be approved unless the city
finds that the telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower.
2. It shall be the burden of the applicant to demonstrate that the proposed tower or antenna
cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or structure. One or more following
pieces of documentation shall be provided as proof that the new tower is necessary:
a. Unwillingness of other tower or facility owners to entertain shared use.
b. The proposed collocation of an existing tower or facility would be in violation of any state or
federal law.
c. The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of existing towers, as
documented by a qualified and licensed structural engineer.
3. The planned equipment would cause interference, materially impacting the usability of other
existing or planned equipment on the tower as documented by a qualified and licensed engineer.
4. Existing or approved towers cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary
to function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed engineer.
5. All proposed communication towers shall be designed (structurally, electrically, and in all
respects) to accommodate both the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least two
(2) additional users if the tower is over one hundred ten feet (110') in height and for at least one
additional user if the tower is over fifty feet (50') in height.

J. Abandoned or Unused Towers Or Portions Of Towers: All abandoned or unused towers and
associated facilities shall be required to be removed within sixty (60) days of cessation of use as
a wireless communication facility, unless a time extension is granted by the city council. A copy
of the relevant portions of a signed lease, which requires the applicant to remove the tower and
associated facilities upon cessation of the use as a wireless communication facility, shall be
submitted at the time of application and resubmitted upon renewal or termination. In the event
that the tower and associated facilities are not removed within the sixty (60) days, the tower and
associated facilities may be removed by the city and the costs of removal assessed against the
real property.




                                                164
                                      CHAPTER 6
                               SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS

                  ARTICLE A. SUBDIVISON PURPOSE AND PROCESS

8-6A-1: PURPOSE:
8-6A-2: APPLICATIONS:
8-6A-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCESS:
8-6A-4: FINAL PLAT PROCESS:
8-6A-5: COMBINED PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT PROCESS:
8-6A-6: SHORT PLAT
8-6A-7: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
8-6A-8: TERM OF APPROVALS:
8-8A-9: MINOR LAND DIVISION fix number
8-6A-10: PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT OR DIVISION:

8-6A-1: PURPOSE:

The purpose of this chapter shall be to implement a general rule for the subdivision of the land in
the Star city limits and the area of city impact. This chapter shall be based on the officially
adopted comprehensive plan of the city and is enacted in order to promote and protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare and to achieve the
following objectives:



                                               165
A. To promote the achievement of the proposals of the Star comprehensive plan;

B. To advance the city as a self-sufficient employment and economic center;

C. To encourage excellence and creativity in the design of all future developments and to
preserve the natural beauty of Star;

D. To encourage orderly growth and development, to avoid scattered development of land that
results in:
1. Lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation facilities, or otherwise essential
public services; or
2. Excessive expenditure of public funds for the supply of such services;

E. To provide for desirable and appropriately located living areas and a variety of dwelling types
and densities with adequate provision for sunlight, fresh air, and usable open space;

F. To provide for the manner and form of making and filing of plats;

G. To specify the requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
1. Roads and streets shall be created and improved;
2. Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or other facilities shall be
installed;
3. Pedestrian pathways consistent with the comprehensive plan are to be located and designed;
and
4. Opportunities for future transit routes and stations are created;

H. To protect existing surface waters throughout the city limits; and

I. To specify the administration of the regulations of this chapter by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities.

8-6A-2: APPLICATIONS:

Applicants shall submit to the administrator an appropriate city application and required
information listed on the application and specified within this title.

8-6A-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCESS:

A. Preapplication Conference: The applicant shall complete a preapplication conference with the
administrator or designee prior to submittal of an application for a preliminary plat. The purpose
of this meeting is to discuss early and informally the purpose and effect of this title, and the
criteria and standards contained herein.

B. Neighborhood Meeting: Applicants are required to hold a neighborhood meeting, in
conformance with Section 8-1A-6C to provide an opportunity for public review of the proposed



                                                166
project prior to the submittal of an application. The applicant shall provide a summary of the
meeting, including questions and concerns of the neighbors and how the submitted application
addresses those issues.

C. Application Requirements: A complete subdivision application form and preliminary plat data
as required in this title, together with fees shall be submitted to the administrator. At the
discretion of the administrator or city engineer, appropriate supplementary information may also
be required to sufficiently detail the proposed development within any special development area,
including, but not limited to, hillside, planned unit development, floodplain, cemetery,
manufactured home parks, and/or hazardous or unique areas of development. When possible, any
unresolved access or traffic generation issues related to ACHD/HD4 or ITD regulated roadways
should be resolved by the applicant prior to acceptance of any application. The administrator
may require a letter from the appropriate transportation agency or servient property owner to be
submitted with the application.

D. Required Information and Data: The contents of the preliminary plat and related information
shall be in such a form as stipulated by the City Council, however, additional plans, maps or data
deemed necessary by the administrator may also be required. This includes but is not limited to a
preliminary grading plan and/or statement referencing future pad elevations, when areas of
floodplain or steeper slopes are impacted, or excessive grade differences are proposed. The
applicant shall submit to the administrator at least the following:

   1. One (1) full-size copy of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, drawn in
      accordance with the requirements hereinafter stated. The preliminary plat shall be
      submitted on good quality paper, be professionally drafted, shall have the dimensions of
      not less than twenty-four inches by thirty-six inches (24” x 36”), and shall be drawn to a
      scale of not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1”=100’) and contain a drafting date
      and north arrow.

   2. For hillside developments, one (1) bound copy of the preliminary engineering plans (not
      meant to be cross sections or detailed designs) showing streets, water, sewers, sidewalks,
      and other required public improvements, together with preliminary site grading, drainage
      and irrigation plans of the proposed subdivision. Such engineering plans shall contain
      sufficient information and detail to make a determination as to conformance of the
      proposed improvements to applicable regulations, ordinances and standards.

   3. Any required traffic impact study shall be submitted and accepted by the appropriate
      transportation authority prior to submittal of a preliminary plat application. A hearing
      date before the Council shall not be scheduled until the traffic impact study has been
      approved and the transportation authority has issued a staff report on the development
      application.

   4. One (1) full-size copy of a landscape plan showing all open space, common areas,
      amenities, street trees and development signage;

   5. Additional information on the preliminary plat and separately submitted information to



                                               167
include the following:

   a. The name of the proposed subdivision, as approved in advance by the Ada County
      Surveyors office;
   b. The name, address, telephone and email of the applicant, developer, engineer and
      surveyor or drafter who prepared the preliminary plat;
   c. The names and addresses of all adjoining property owners and recorded plats
      within three hundred feet (300’) of the external boundaries of the land being
      considered for subdivision.
   d. The land use and existing and proposed zoning of the proposed subdivision and
      the adjacent land;
   e. Streets, street names, rights of ways and roadway widths, including adjoining
      streets or roadways;
   f. Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions and numbers of each, together with
      area of each lot in acres and square feet;
   g. Contour lines, shown at five-foot (5’) intervals where the land slope is greater
      than ten percent (10%) and at two-foot (2’) intervals where land slope is ten
      percent (10%) or less, referenced to an established benchmark, including location
      and elevation;
   h. Any proposed or existing utilities, including, but not limited to, power poles,
      storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, bridges, culverts, water
      mains and fire hydrants;
   i. Any flood zone information including FEMA FIRM panels;
   j. The legal description of the boundary of the property being subdivided with the
      seal of the surveyor of record;
   k. Phasing plan showing all proposed phases of the development;
   l. Preliminary irrigation analysis showing availability of water rights and
      distribution of irrigation to the lots within the proposed subdivision, or waiver
      request;
   m. One (1) copy of a site report of the highest seasonal groundwater elevation
      prepared by a licensed engineer;
   n. A statement on the intent of the development regarding future site grading
      elevations, including estimated differences between the existing and finished
      grades, and how many feet a site may be raised relative to the adjacent land uses;
   o. A narrative, signed by the applicant, fully describing the proposed subdivision,
      including such information as number and type of uses on the lots (residential
      single, two or multi-family, commercial, etc.), common lots and the proposed uses
      of those lots (open space, parks, playgrounds, landscaping, or other uses) and any
      other information deemed necessary to explain the intent of the development
      including how it relates to other concurrently submitted applications (annexations,
      rezones, PUD’s, CUP’s, etc.);
   p. Neighborhood meeting information including sign-in sheet, copy of meeting
      letter, copy of mailing labels, and detailed summary of neighbor questions and
      concerns and how the development has been designed to address those concerns;
   q. A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the surrounding
      area (1/2-mile radius);



                                      168
           r. Deeds, affidavit of legal interest, address labels, postal service location approval,
              ACHD/CHD4/ITD traffic study review status, electronic copies, or any other
              required information deemed necessary by the administrator to allow for proper
              review of the application;
           s. A conceptual site plan shall be submitted for any non-residential developments
              showing building locations, parking and loading areas, traffic access drives and
              traffic circulation and trash enclosure locations;
           t. Any additional required information for special area of developments including,
              but not limited to hillsides, wetlands or as further specified in this Title.
           u. Building elevations for all residential uses shall be submitted with the application
              and will be included as part of any development agreement and/or condition of
              approval.
           v. Electronic file of all application materials in original .pdf format shall be
              submitted with the application on a thumb drive.

    6. Additional information in the application as determined by the administrator may include
       the following:
            a. Building elevations, non-residential uses, clubhouses, well houses, or other
               elevations deemed necessary to assist the Council in their decision regarding a
               development;
            b. Colored site plan and renderings of a subdivision detailing residential lot
               locations, open space and common areas, buffers, roadways, waterways and
               irrigation ditches, fencing, signs and landscaping.
E. Acceptance: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, payment of all associated application fees,
and compliance with all other requirements as provided for herein, the administrator shall certify
the application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance.

F. Decision: A decision on a preliminary plat for a parcel of land is made by the City Council
after receiving a recommendation from the administrator and a public hearing is held.

8-6A-4: FINAL PLAT PROCESS:

A. Application Requirements: After the approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat,
the applicant may cause the total parcel, or any part thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat
prepared in accord with the approved preliminary plat. An application and fees shall be
submitted to the administrator on forms provided by the City.

B. Contents of Final Plat: The final plat shall include and be in compliance with all items
required under Idaho Code section 50-1301 et seq. The final plat submittal shall include at least:
1. A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated by the council;
2. Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the proposed final plat and consent
of recorded owners of the plat;
3. Such other information as the administrator or designee and/or city engineer may deem
necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/or approved said final
plat;
4. Conformance with the approved preliminary plat and meeting all requirements or conditions



                                               169
thereof;
5. Conformance with all requirements and provisions of this title;
6. Conformance with acceptable engineering, architectural and surveying practices and local
standards including those set forth in Section 8-4A-11. and
7. Proposed drainage and stormwater, grading, and irrigation plans and associated reports shall
be submitted with the final plat application. No site improvements of any kind shall commence
until City Engineer approval of civil plans.
8. The final plat application shall provide draft CC&R’s that include, but not be limited to,
information relating to setbacks, fencing, private street maintenance information, and any other
information required by the City through an approved Development Agreement and/or
conditions of approval of the preliminary and final plat. A statement of where the specific
information is within the draft document shall be provided at the time of application.

C. Administrator Review:
1. Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with all other requirements as
provided for herein, the administrator shall certify the application as complete and shall affix the
date of acceptance.
2. Substantial Compliance:
a. The administrator or designee shall review the final plat for substantial compliance with the
approved or conditionally approved preliminary plat. The final plat shall be determined in
substantial compliance with the preliminary plat, notwithstanding the following changes:
(1) The number of buildable lots is the same or fewer;
(2) The amount of common open space has been increased or is the same;
(3) The amount of open space is relocated with no reduction in the total amount;
(4) The number of open space lots has been increased or is the same; or
(5) The transportation authority has required minor changes, including updated street and/or
sidewalk widths or standards.
3.Not in Substantial Compliance: If the administrator determines that there is substantial
difference in the final plat than that which was approved as part of the original a preliminary plat
process, the intent of the development, or conditions that have not been met, the administrator
may require that a new preliminary plat be submitted to the city.

D. Decision on Final Plat: Decision on the final plat is made by the City Council.

E. Recording of The Final Plat: Upon approval or approval with conditions by the council and
signature of the city clerk and city engineer, the applicant may submit the final plat to the county
recorder for recording. The final plat shall contain the certifications required under Idaho Code
section 50-1301 et seq., as well as those required by the city of Star.

8-6A-5: COMBINED PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT PROCESS:

A. Applicability: A subdivision application may be processed as both a preliminary and final plat
if all the following exist:
1. The proposed subdivision does not exceed five (5) lots (excluding common and/or landscaping
lots); or a previous plat was approved on the subject property; and
2. No new public street dedication, excluding widening of an existing street, is required (private



                                                170
streets are ok); and
3. No major special development considerations are involved, such as development in a
floodplain or hillside development.

B. Preapplication Conference: The applicant shall complete a preapplication conference with the
administrator prior to submittal of an application for a combined preliminary and final plat. The
purpose of this meeting is to discuss early and informally the purpose and effect of this title, and
the criteria and standards contained herein.

C. Neighborhood Meeting: Applicants are required to hold a neighborhood meeting, in
conformance with Section 8-1A-6C, to provide an opportunity for public review of the proposed
project prior to the submittal of an application. The applicant shall provide a summary of the
meeting, including questions and concerns of the neighbors and how the submitted application
addresses those issues.

D. Application Requirements: Applications and fees, in accord with subsection 8-6A-3 of this
article shall be submitted.

E. Contents of Final Plat: The final plat shall include all items required in subsection 8-6A-4B of
this article or any additional items required by the Administrator.

F. Decision: A decision on a combined preliminary and final plat is made by the city council.

8-6A-6: SHORT PLAT PROCESS:

A. Applicability: A subdivision application for a short plat may be processed provided that it
meets all of the following conditions:

   1. The property is an original lot in a recorded subdivision;
   2. The property is not the result of a previous short plat of a lot and/or the property is not the
      result of an approved parcel division by Ada or Canyon County Development Services;
   3. The proposed subdivision does not exceed a total of two (2) lots on a previously platted
      property or parcel of land;
   4. No new public street dedication, or new proposed private street, excluding widening of
      an existing street, is involved;
   5. There are no impacts on the health, safety or general welfare of the city, and the
      subdivision is in the best interest of the city.

B. Preapplication Conference: The applicant shall complete a preapplication conference with the
administrator prior to submittal of an application for a combined preliminary and final plat. The
purpose of this meeting is to discuss early and informally the purpose and effect of this title, and
the criteria and standards contained herein.

C. Application Requirements: Applications and fees, in accord with subsection 8-6A-3C, 8-6A-
3D and 8-6A-4 of this article shall be submitted.




                                                171
D. Final Approval Notice: Upon determination by the administrator that the short plat is in
conformance with this article, a final approval letter shall be issued.

E. Time Limit and Completion of Tasks: Upon tentative approval of the application by the
administrator, subject to any applicable conditions of approval and the regulations of this title,
the applicant or owner shall have one year to complete the following tasks:
       a. Cause the property to be surveyed, and a record of survey recorded;
       b. Execute and record the necessary deeds to accomplish the property boundary
       adjustments as approved;
       c. Obtain new tax parcel numbers and street addresses from the county assessor; and
       d. Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds, and the new tax
       parcel numbers to the administrator.

F. A condominium plat application for any number of lots for property in any district shall be
processed as a short plat where all buildings are constructed or have received building permits
for construction. A condominium plat amendment for interior alterations or modifications shall
be exempt from further review. Applicant shall comply with all State requirements regarding
condominium platting. The plat shall be accepted and approved by the Administrator on
behalf of the Council. The City Clerk shall certify the acceptance and approval.

8-6A-7: REQUIRED FINDINGS:

In consideration of a preliminary plat or combined preliminary and final plat, the decision-
making body shall make the following findings:

A. The plat is in conformance with the comprehensive plan;
B. Public services are available or can be made available and are adequate to accommodate the
proposed development;

C. There is public financial capability of supporting services for the proposed development;

D. The development will not be detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare; and

E. The development preserves significant natural, scenic or historic features.

8-6A-8: TERM OF APPROVALS:

A. Failure to Submit Final Plat: Approval of a preliminary plat or combined preliminary and
final plat or short plat shall become null and void if the applicant fails to obtain city engineer
signature of a final plat within two (2) years of the approval of the preliminary plat (signed
findings of fact. Minor land divisions shall be recorded within one year of approval.

B. Phased Development: In the event that the development of the preliminary plat is made in
successive phases in an orderly and reasonable manner, and conforms substantially to the
approved preliminary plat, such segments, if submitted within successive intervals of eighteen
(18) months, may be considered for final approval without resubmission for preliminary plat



                                                 172
approval.

C. Authorize Extension: Upon written request and filed by the applicant prior to the termination
date of the period in accord with subsection A of this section, the administrator may authorize a
single extension of time to record the final plat not to exceed twenty four (24) months.
Additional time extensions up to twenty four (24) months as determined and approved by the
city council may be granted. Submittal of a Council approved time extension request shall be a
minimum of 30 days prior to the expiration date. With all time extensions, the administrator or
city council may require the preliminary plat, combined preliminary and final plat or short plat to
comply with the current provisions of this title.

D. Failure to Meet Timetable: If the above timetable is not met and the applicant does not receive
a time extension, the property may be required to go through the platting procedure again, as
determined by the administrator.

8-6A-9: MINOR LAND DIVISION PROCESS:

   A. Purpose: The purpose of the minor land division process is to allow the creation of up to
      four buildable parcels without being subject to the procedural provisions of the
      Preliminary and Final Plat regulations of this title. A Record of Survey, application and
      the appropriate fees are required for a minor land division of a lot, tract or parcel of land.

   B. Applicability: A minor land division must meet the following conditions:
      1. These regulations apply to all existing lots and parcels in Star city limits of record, as
         it exists in its original configuration in the City of Star after December 12, 1997, or a
         lot as it exists in an approved subdivision after December 12, 1997. It shall be the
         responsibility of the applicant to provide proper proof to the administrator showing
         eligibility for this property division.
      2. The existing zoning designation of the property allows for the proposed density
         associated with the minor land division. A residential property that needs a rezone or
         annexation does not qualify. Properties annexed into the City or rezoned without a
         preliminary plat shall not qualify for a future minor land division.
      3. No minor land division shall create more than 4 new parcels;
      4. No property involved in a minor land division shall be involved in a subsequent
         minor land division;
      5. Wet line sewer and central water lines must be currently located adjacent to or within
         the public right-of-way that abuts the parcel to be divided. This shall not apply to
         proposed parcels greater than one-acre in size that utilize an individual septic system,
         provided that appropriate Health District and Star Sewer and Water District approvals
         are provided or conditioned as part of the approval;
      6. No new public street dedication, excluding widening of an existing street, is involved.
         Private streets meeting the standards of subsection 8-4D-3, and common/shared
         driveways with Fire District approval may be permitted;
      7. No new public utility lines shall be extended within the public right-of-way to the
         property involved in the minor land division;
      8. All resulting parcels must conform to the minimum requirements of all existing land



                                                173
    use regulations including the adopted Unified Development Code;
9. If any of the following conditions are present, a subdivision application and/or rezone
    application shall be required.
        A. Dividing a lot in an existing subdivision that has already maximized the
            density of the existing zoning designation, violates a Development Agreement
            condition for maximum number of lots, or removes required open space
            and/or amenities;
        B. The possibility for public or private streets that would provide greater
            connectivity to the area, as determined by the Administrator;
        C. Creating lots that will have incompatible setbacks to surrounding parcels, as
            determined by the Administrator (i.e., side yards adjacent to rear yards);
        D. The creation of multiple driveway access points on a collector or arterial
            roadway when a public or private street could avoid the situation;
        E. Creating a larger remnant parcel that could otherwise be included in an overall
            subdivision; and
        F. New property lines configured in a way that could create future setback or
            access issues.
10. All existing buildings to remain shall meet applicable zoning requirements regarding
    allowed uses and parking shall comply with all requirements of the existing zone.
    Additionally, the following shall apply:
        A. Any setback that was legally non-conforming prior to the minor land division
            may remain as a legal non-conforming setback, provided that the legal non-
            conforming setback is not altered by the minor land division, and that all new
            buildings and additions meet the current zoning setback requirements;
        B. Any building not meeting the required setback that is to be partially or
            completely demolished or moved shall either be demolished or moved prior to
            the final approval of the minor land division;
        C. Special setbacks, as allowed for in Section 8-3A-4 of this Title, shall be
            clearly illustrated on the recorded record of survey;
        D. Any existing structures shall connect to public water and sewer lines prior to
            final approval of the minor land division, unless otherwise allowed in this
            section;
        E. If required parking is provided by means of a permanent shared-parking
            agreement, a note on the face of the survey must list the total required and
            provided parking for all parcels to which the shared parking provisions of the
            shared-parking agreement applies;
        F. When a utility crosses land being divided, a utility easement shall be provided
            and indicated on the Record of Survey. If an easement is located in a proposed
            permanent structure construction area, the easement shall be vacated prior to
            the Administrators final approval of the minor land division; and
        G. All new parcels that abut the public right-of-way shall be improved with
            sidewalk, curb and gutter per the Transportation Authority requirements, and,
            if applicable, a paved driveway apron that extends to the edge of street
            pavement will be required. All right-of-way improvements, license
            agreements, and/or bonding shall be completed prior to the Administrators
            final approval of the minor land division.



                                       174
   C. Process:

          a. Application: An application and fees shall be submitted to the administrator on
             forms provided by the planning department.
          b. Preapplication Conference: The applicant shall complete a preapplication
             conference with the administrator prior to submittal of an application for a minor
             land division. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss early and informally the
             purpose and effect of this title and the criteria and standards contained herein.
          c. Final Approval Notice: Upon determination by the administrator that the minor
             land division is in conformance with this article, a final approval letter shall be
             issued.
          d. Time Limit and Completion of Tasks: Upon tentative approval of the application
             by the administrator, subject to any applicable conditions of approval and the
             regulations of this title, the applicant or owner shall have one year to complete the
             following tasks:
                  i. Cause the property to be surveyed and a record of survey recorded;
                 ii. Execute and record the necessary deeds to accomplish the property
                     boundary adjustments as approved;
                iii. Obtain new tax parcel numbers and street addresses from the county
                     assessor; and
                iv. Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds, and the
                     new tax parcel numbers to the administrator.
8-6A-10: PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT OR DIVISION:

A. Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to allow for the adjustment of property lines
   between existing properties, to allow for the reduction in the number of buildable lots, or to
   allow the creation of an additional parcel from an original parcel of record for the transfer of
   ownership or development.
B. Applicability: These regulations apply to all existing lots and parcels in Star city limits. For
   a property division, any original parcel, or lot of record, as it exists in its original
   configuration in the City of Star after December 12, 1997, or a County parcel of record that is
   being annexed into the City of Star, and is not the result of a previous property division in the
   County, may be eligible for one (1) administrative property division provided that both new
   parcels meet the current zoning and dimensional standards of this title. It shall be the
   responsibility of the applicant to provide proper proof to the administrator showing eligibility
   for this property division.

C. Process:
1. Application: An application and fees shall be submitted to the administrator on forms provided
by the planning department.
2. Time Limit on Completion of Tasks: Upon tentative approval of the application by the
administrator, subject to any applicable conditions of approval and the regulations of this title,
the applicant or owner shall have one year to complete the following tasks:
a. Cause the property to be surveyed and a record of survey recorded;
b. Execute and record the deeds to accomplish the property boundary adjustments as approved;



                                                175
c. Obtain new tax parcel numbers and street addresses from the county assessor; and
d. Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds, and the new tax parcel
numbers to the administrator.
3. Final Approval Notice: Upon determination by the administrator that the final property
boundary adjustment or division is in conformance with this article, a final acceptance letter shall
be issued.

D. Standards:
1. A property boundary adjustment or division shall not reduce the property sizes below the
minimum dimensional standards prescribed by this title; or if one or more of the properties is
nonconforming as to the minimum dimensional standards prescribed by this title, the property
boundary adjustment shall not increase the nonconformity.
a. A property boundary adjustment shall not increase the original number of properties but may
decrease the original number of properties.
b. A property boundary adjustment or division shall not change or move any public streets or
publicly dedicated areas in any manner.
c. A property boundary adjustment or division does not vacate the platted lot lines or easements
of a recorded subdivision. Any private or public easement may be vacated in accord with the
requirements of this title.
d. If a new lot or parcel is created as part of a property division, both lots or parcels shall be
subject to the requirement of connection to municipal services, if available, and shall be subject
to additional improvements as determined by the administrator and subject to this title, including
but not limited to sidewalks and paved driveways.



                                          ARTICLE B.

              SUBDIVISION DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS

8-6B-1: APPLICABILITY:
8-6B-2: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:
8-6B-3: DEVELOPER'S RESPONSIBILITY:

8-6B-1: APPLICABILITY:

A. All plats submitted in accord with the provisions of this chapter, and all subdivisions,
improvements and facilities done, constructed or made in accord with said provisions shall
comply with the minimum design standards set forth in this article provided, however, that any
higher standards adopted by any transportation or health authority shall otherwise prevail.

B. It shall be the responsibility and liability of every applicant, and the owner of the land being
subdivided, to construct and install every improvement shown on the plat of the subdivision,
represented to be included in the subdivision at any presentation before the city council, and all
improvements required by the ordinances of the city specifically including the requirements of
this article, and this responsibility and liability shall be personal to the developer and the owner



                                                 176
and shall also run with the land, and this responsibility and liability shall be shown on the plat of
the subdivision.

8-6B-2: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:

A. Compliance with all Applicable Requirements: The plat shall comply with all applicable
requirements as set forth in this title.

B. Streets:
1. Dedication: Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets as shown on the
comprehensive plan shall be dedicated to the public in all cases; in general, all other streets shall
also be dedicated to public use.
2. Street Specifications: The design, location, and widths of all street and street intersections
shall comply with the requirements of the transportation authority and Fire District, unless
alternative standards are adopted by the city of Star. Public and private street widths shall be a
minimum of thirty-six feet (36’) unless specifically approved by Council.
3. Street Names: The naming of streets shall conform to the requirements of the county street
naming committee, with the following exceptions:
a. The street name shall generally comply with this subsection.
b. Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name within the county, except where a
new street is a continuation of an existing street.
c. Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same as existing streets shall not be
used.
d. All new streets shall be named as follows: streets having predominantly north-south direction
shall be named "Avenue" or "Road"; streets having a predominantly east-west direction shall be
named "Street" or "Way"; meandering streets shall be named "Drive", "Terrace", "Path", or
"Trail"; and cul-de-sacs shall be named "Circle", "Court", and "Place". Private streets shall be
named “Lane”.
e. For streets that provide primary access to a subdivision or neighborhood and that align with an
existing or planned street across an intersection that is not part of the same subdivision or
neighborhood, the street name shall not duplicate the name of the subdivision or neighborhood.
f. Proposed streets which are a continuation of an existing street shall be given the same name as
the existing street.
g. Street name signs shall be installed in the appropriate locations at each street intersection.
4. Cul-De-Sacs: No street that ends in a cul-de-sac or a dead end shall be longer than seven
hundred fifty feet (750').
5. Alleys: All alleys shall be approved by the Fire District and shall have a minimum of twenty-
foot (20') right of way and shall be paved, unless otherwise required.
6. Coving: Coving, or meandering design of roadways shall be encouraged, where reasonable, to
provide a unique feel to a neighborhood versus a standard grid roadway system. The grid system
may also be utilized where appropriate to provide for a variety of street designs within the
overall project.
7. Street naming within Canyon County shall be reviewed and approved by the City in
coordination with the County.

C. Driveways: All driveway openings in curbs shall comply with the requirements of the



                                                 177
authorized transportation authority.

D. Common/Shared Driveways:
1. Common/Shared Driveways shall not be permitted for residential developments unless an
approved, emergency turn-around is provided, and the driveway is approved by the Fire District.

2. For commercial or other non-residential uses, common driveways serving multiple structures
and/or properties shall meet the requirements of the Fire District.
3. Width Standards: Common driveways shall be a minimum of twenty-eight feet (28') in width.
4. Maximum Length: Common driveways shall be a maximum of one hundred fifty feet (150') in
length or less, unless otherwise approved by the fire district.
5. Improvement Standards: Common driveways shall be paved with a surface capable of
supporting emergency services vehicles and equipment.
6. Abutting Properties: Unless limited by significant geographical features, all properties that
abut a common driveway shall take access from the driveway.
7. Turning Radius: Common driveways shall be straight or provide a twenty-eight foot (28')
inside and fifty foot (50') outside turning radius.
8. Depictions: For any plats using a common driveway, the setbacks, building envelope, and
orientation of the lots and structures shall be shown on the preliminary and/or final plat.
9. Easement: A perpetual ingress/egress easement shall be filed with the county recorder, which
shall include a requirement for maintenance of a paved surface capable of supporting fire
vehicles and equipment.

E. Easements:
1. Utility easements shall be provided along front lot lines, rear lot lines and side lot lines when
deemed necessary by the city engineer or designee.
2. Total easement width shall not be less than ten feet (10').

F. Blocks: In the residential districts, no block shall be more than seven hundred fifty feet (750')
in length without an intersecting street, alley, or other City and ACHD/HD4 approved remedy.
Remedies include traffic calming and/or waiver from City Council for the lengths.

G. Reserve Strips: Privately held reserve strips or “spite strips” controlling access from adjacent
lands to public streets shall be prohibited.

H. Flag Lots: Flag lots are prohibited in all residential zones greater than R-2, unless
specifically approved by Council. Any approved flag lot shall also be approved by the Fire
District.

I. Pathway easements shall be open to the public.

J. Pathway easements shall be required along the Boise river as shown within the comprehensive
plan and shall be open to the public.

K. Subdivision Naming: It is the developers responsibility to receive approval of a subdivision
name from the County Surveyor (for Ada County) and the City (for Canyon County) prior to



                                                 178
submittal of a preliminary plat application. Once the application for preliminary plat is accepted
by the City, the subdivision name shall not change through the final platting process.

8-6B-3: DEVELOPER'S RESPONSIBILITY:

The developer has the responsibility of maintaining the subdivision property until such time that
the subdivision is turned over to a homeowner or business owner association. Failure to comply
with the following may result in a stop work order being issued until the violations are remedied,
and/or revocation of preliminary plat/final plat approvals. The following are requirements of the
developer:

A. Keep property weed abated at all times. At no time shall weeds exceed a height of 12” in
height.

B. Mitigate dust throughout all development stages of the subdivision. Water trucks shall be on-
site and in operation at all times during site earthwork activities.

C. Maintain the site for debris daily and prevent wind-blown debris. This shall include, but is not
limited to trash, junk or disabled vehicles during any portion of the development process.

D. All trash receptacles and construction site garbage bins shall be emptied on a regular basis
and not left over-flowing.

E. Clean up of any mud and/or dirt that is deposited from construction onto any streets daily.
    This shall include any streets used to access the property.

F. Streets within the development shall be swept and cleaned weekly, or as needed.

G. Coordinate with the United States Postal Service for the best location of mail receptacles. The
mail receptacle shall not be placed in the vision triangle.

H. Provide the city with GIS locations of all streetlights and irrigation facilities.

I. Provide a construction sign, to be located at all entrances to a development, indicating the rules
for all sub-contractors to follow from the first day of grading of the site through to sale of homes.
This sign should include, but not be limited to, dust, music, dogs, site debris, mud, and
starting/stopping hours for contractors (7 a.m. starting time). Sign is subject to approval by the
administrator prior to installation.

J. Homeowners Associations. The developer is required to establish a homeowner association in
any development that has common maintenance or ownership of utilities, recreation areas,
landscaping, etc. The Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions established for the homeowner
association shall include a provision allowing the homeowner association to amend the
controlling documents (CC&Rs, architectural control guidelines and bylaws) by simple majority
vote of the members of the association after all lots in the subdivision have been sold by the
developer.



                                                 179
        1.       This one-time amendment may occur at the first annual meeting following the
sale of the last building lot owned by the developer.
        2.       The new document shall be recorded in the county records and shall be distributed
to every owner in the association.
        3.       CC&Rs and bylaws amended using this reduced majority, shall not be used to:
                 a.     Introduce or alter a system of fines for homeowner non-compliance,
unless to remove an existing system of fines.
                 b.     Attempt to control parking on public roads or property that is not wholly
owned by the HOA.
                 c.     Permanently reduce the supermajority required for changing the CC&Rs
and bylaws below sixty percent (60%).
                 d.     Restrict the use of private property beyond the restrictions contained in the
Star City Code or in the original CC&Rs, including all forms of renting and leasing.
                 e.     Remove or otherwise alter plans or conditions approved by the City,
including but not limited to landscaping, required open space, amenities, setbacks and other
design and dimensional standards as approved by Council.
                 f.     Any of the above may be accomplished using the supermajority as
described in the original bylaws.

K. FIRE HYDRANTS: All fire hydrants, once installed, shall have orange temporary
construction fencing placed around the hydrant no less than 3 feet in circumference from top of
hydrant and open on the front (See picture below). The fencing shall remain unobstructed
twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven days a week. This fence shall remain in place until all
construction activities are completed within 100 feet of the hydrant. There shall also be no
obstructions within 15 feet, including parking, placement of porta-potties, construction materials,
construction trash boxes or any other objects that may encumber access to the hydrant, including
weeds.




FIGURE 8-6B-3(a)
HYDRANT FENCING




                                                180
L. WATER METERS: All water meters should have their lids on and secured at all times. There
shall also be no obstructions within 15 feet, including parking, placement of porta-potties,
construction materials, construction trash boxes or any other objects that may encumber access to
the meter, including weeds.

M. BURNING/OPEN FIRES: Outdoor burning at construction sites shall follow the city
ordinance for outdoor burning. The outdoor burn line should be notified before the
commencement of any burning. All burns shall follow City Municipal Code (3-3-1 thru 3-3-6).
Burning is only allowed between the hours of 8:00 AM to sunset.




                                           Chapter 7

                            PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS



                                              181
8-7-1: PURPOSE:
8-7-2: APPLICABILITY:
8-7-3: PROCESS:
8-7-4: STANDARDS:
8-7-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
8-7-6: TIME LIMITATIONS:
8-7-7: MODIFICATIONS:

8-7-1: PURPOSE:

A. The purpose of the planned unit development (PUD) requirements is to provide an
opportunity for exemplary site development that meets the following objectives:
1. Preserves natural, scenic and historic features of major importance;
2. Allows for innovative design that creates visually pleasing and cohesive patterns of
development; and
3. Creates functionally integrated development that allows for a more efficient and cost-effective
provision of public services.
4. Master planning of large acreages that include of variety of residential and commercial uses
within one development.

B. It is not the intent that the PUD process be used solely for the purposes of deviation from the
dimensional standards in the district, however deviations from dimensional and other standards
within this title, may be approved for portions of the development by the council if the PUD
incorporates design features that add to the overall design and quality of the proposed
development. By allowing dimensional standard deviations in portions of the development,
exceptions in land uses allowed and pre-approvals of specific uses as conditions of approval
within the PUD application process, the City expects in return a unique development that
provides upgraded open space and amenities, mixed uses, multiple residential styles and superior
site design.

8-7-2: APPLICABILITY:

A planned unit development can be developed in any district. A PUD must have both
commercial and a variety of residential components in order to qualify.

8-7-3: PROCESS:

A. Preapplication Meeting: The applicant shall complete a preapplication conference with the
administrator or designee prior to submittal of an application for a planned unit development.
The meeting should be held well in advance of the preparation of the planned unit development
application, and before a neighborhood meeting is scheduled. A draft site plan and preliminary
plat map (if required) shall be provided to staff at the meeting.
B. Application Requirements: An application, map requirements, and fees, shall be submitted to
the administrator.
1. At the discretion of the administrator, designee or city engineer, appropriate supplementary



                                               182
information may also be required to sufficiently detail the proposed development within any
special development area, including, but not limited to, hillside, floodplain, cemetery,
manufactured home parks, or hazardous or unique areas of development. Phasing plans shall be
included in the application if the project is to be phased.
2. A site amenity plan shall be provided with the planned unit development application.

C. Concurrent Review: Concurrent review of other applications may be required as determined
by the administrator. In cases where subdivision platting would be necessary, concurrent review
of preliminary plat is required.

D. Public Hearing Requirements: All planned unit development applications shall comply with
the public notice and hearing procedures contained within this title.

8-7-4: STANDARDS:

The council may approve planned unit developments, in accord with the following standards:

A. General Use Standards:
1. Deviations from Underlying District Requirements: Deviations from dimensional and other
standards within this title, may be approved by the council if the PUD incorporates design
features that add to the overall design and quality of the proposed development. The exception is
that along the periphery of the planned development, the applicable setbacks as established by
the district shall not be reduced. Internal setback deviations may be considered by Council with
approval from the Fire District, when emergency concerns are addressed. Examples for
considerations may include, but are not limited to, alley-loaded homes providing multiple access
points, and/or fire sprinkled homes.
2. Allowed Uses: Applicant may request that specific conditional use(s) be allowed in the district
as principal permitted use(s) and up to twenty-five percent (25%) of non-permitted uses be
allowed as permitted uses if the council finds that compatibility within the PUD, compatibility
with adjacent uses and compliance with the intent of the comprehensive plan is provided. It is at
the sole discretion of the Council to approve non-permitted uses within the development,
including the maximum amount of those non-permitted uses.
3. Private Streets and Service Drives: The uses within the planned unit development are
interconnected through a system of roadways and/or pathways as appropriate. Private streets and
service drives may be permitted, if designed and constructed to the transportation authority
standards and in accord with this title. The approval of private streets shall not prevent access
and/or interconnectivity to adjacent properties or otherwise create unreasonable development
opportunities.
4. Buildings Clustered: Buildings shall be clustered where practical to preserve scenic or
environmentally sensitive areas in the natural state, or to consolidate small open spaces into
larger, more usable areas for common use and enjoyment.
5. Density Bonus: A residential density bonus may be given for dedications of land for public
use such as school, park, fire station or recreational facility provided to the public entity by
donation or at a cost less than, or equal to, the applicant's predevelopment cost for that land.
The bonus shall be proportional to the amount of land being dedicated. For example, if ten (10)
percent of the total property is being donated, the density bonus shall be ten (10) percent.



                                               183
However, in no case shall the bonus exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the units permitted by
the district.

B. Private Open Space: In addition to the common open space and site amenity requirements of
this title, a minimum of eighty (80) square feet of additional, private, usable open space shall be
provided for each residential unit not planned as single-family detached. This requirement can be
satisfied through porches, patios, decks, and enclosed yards. Landscaping, entryway and other
accessways do not count toward this requirement.

C. Residential Use Standards:
1. Housing Types: A variety of housing types may be included within a single planned
development, such as attached units (townhouses, duplexes), detached units (patio homes),
single-family and multi-family units, regardless of the district classification of the site, provided
that the overall density limit of the district is maintained. A minimum of two (2) housing types
shall be provided for all PUD’s.

D. Infill Planned Developments: Properties of five (5) acres or less within the city of Star, that
are located in areas already substantially developed (at least 80 percent of the land area within
300 feet of the boundaries of the parcel) and where water, sewer, streets, schools and fire
protection have already been developed and are provided. Upon recommendation of the
administrator, the council may approve exceptions to other sections of this title as an incentive
for infill development, including, but not limited to the following:
1. The council may allow up to a twenty five percent (25%) increase in the density permitted for
the district in which the site is located. It is at the sole discretion of the Council to approve the
maximum density bonus requested. Density bonuses shall not be allowed in the CBD.
2. The council may also waive or modify open space and amenity requirements set forth in this
section depending on the size and scale of the planned development and proximity to public open
space, pathways or greenbelts.

E. Conditions, Bonds and Safeguards: In approving the planned unit development, the council
may prescribe appropriate conditions, additional conditions, bonds, and safeguards in conformity
with this title that:
1. Minimize adverse impact of the use on other property.
2. Control the sequence and timing, or phasing, of the uses.
3. Control the duration of the use. Assure that the use and the property in which the use is located
is maintained properly.
4. Designate the exact location and nature of the use and the property development.
5. Require the provision for on site or off-site public facilities or services.
6. Require more restrictive standards than those generally required in this title.
7. Require mitigation of adverse impacts of the proposed development upon service delivery by
any political subdivision, including school districts, which provides services within the city.


8-7-5: REQUIRED FINDINGS:

Upon recommendation from the administrator, the council shall make a full investigation and



                                                 184
shall, at the public hearing, review the application. In order to grant a planned development
request, the council shall make the following findings:

A. The planned unit development demonstrates exceptional high quality in site design through
the provision of cohesive, continuous, visually related and functionally linked patterns of
development, street and pathway layout, and building design.
B. The planned unit development preserves the significant natural, scenic and/or historic
features.

C. The arrangement of uses and/or structures in the development does not cause damage, hazard,
or nuisance to persons or property in the vicinity.

D. The internal street, bike and pedestrian circulation system is designed or the efficient and safe
flow of vehicles, bicyclists and pedestrians without having a disruptive influence upon the
activities and functions contained within the development, nor place an undue burden upon
existing transportation and other public services in the surrounding area.

E. Community facilities, such as a park, recreational, and dedicated open space areas are
functionally related and accessible to all dwelling units via pedestrian and/or bicycle pathways.

F. The proposal complies with the density and use standards requirements in accord with his
title.

G. The amenities provided are appropriate in number and scale to the proposed development.

H. The planned unit development is in conformance with the comprehensive plan.

8-7-6: TIME LIMITATIONS:

The time limitations and extensions as set forth for conditional uses within this title shall also
apply to planned unit developments.

8-7-7: MODIFICATIONS:

The modification provisions as set forth for conditional uses within this title shall also apply to
planned unit developments.




                                           CHAPTER 8

                        DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS



                                                 185
                              ARTICLE A. SIGN STANDARDS

8-8A-1: PURPOSE:
8-8A-2: APPLICABILITY:
8-8A-3: CONFLICT WITH ORDINANCES, LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
8-8A-4: ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION:
8-8A-5: DEFINITIONS:
8-8A-6: GENERAL SIGN REQUIREMENTS:
8-8A-7: SIGNS EXEMPT FROM THIS CHAPTER:
8-8A-8: SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMITS:
8-8A-9: SIGNS WITHIN THE HISTORIC OVERLAY CBD ZONING DISTRICT:
8-8A-10: VISUAL ELEMENTS PROHIBITED:
8-8A-11: SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS:
8-8A-12: PERMIT PROCESS AND PROCEDURES:
8-8A-13: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
8-8A-14: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES:

8-8A-1: PURPOSE:

The purposes of this chapter are:

A. To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication in the city of Star,
   Idaho;

B. To maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the city's ability to attract sources of
    economic development and growth;

C. To improve pedestrian and traffic safety;

D. To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and private property; and

E. To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign regulations.

8-8A-2: APPLICABILITY:

A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created, or maintained in the city only in
conformance with the standards, procedures, exemptions and other requirements of this chapter.
The effect of this chapter as more specifically set forth herein is:

A. To establish a permit system to allow a variety of types of signs in commercial and industrial
   areas and a limited variety of signs in residential areas, subject to the standards and the
   permit procedures of this chapter;




                                               186
B. To allow certain types of signs which include: small, unobtrusive and incidental to the
    principal use of the respective lots on which they are located, subject to the substantive
    requirements of this chapter, without the requirements of a permit;

C. To prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this chapter;

D. To establish a reasonable permit fee; and

E. To provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.

8-8A-3: CONFLICT WITH ORDINANCES, LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:

In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the
minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general
welfare. In case of conflict between this chapter or any part thereof, and the whole or part of any
existing or future local, state, or federal ordinance, law, regulation, or rule, or the whole or part
of any existing or future private covenant or deeds, the most restrictive requirement shall apply.

8-8A-4: ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION:

A. Administration: The administrator or designee for the city of Star is charged with the
   implementation, administration, and enforcement of this chapter interpretation. In certain
   unique circumstances, the administrator may make interpretation and decisions regarding
   vagueness within this chapter.

B. Interpretation: The decision of the administrator shall be valid in areas of interpretation and
    vagueness. Appeal of decisions of the administrator shall be made to the Star city council.

8-8A-5: DEFINITIONS:

Certain terms are defined for the purposes of this chapter. All other words and phrases shall be
given their common, ordinary meaning unless the context clearly requires otherwise.

ADDRESS: The numeric reference of a use or building to a street name.

ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign which is designated and constructed to give its message through a
sequence or progressive changes or parts or lights or degree of lighting, such as an electronic
reader board. Animated signs are allowed only for municipalities and public school for the
purpose of announcements to the community. All other animated signs are prohibited in all
zoning districts.

AREA OF SIGN: See definition of Sign Area.

ATTACHED SIGN: See definition of Building Sign.




                                                 187
ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(a)
ATTACHED SIGN




AWNING: A shelter projecting from and supported by the exterior wall of a building.

AWNING SIGN: A sign painted on, printed on, or attached flat against the surface of an awning.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(b)
AWNING SIGN




                                             188
BANNER: A temporary sign made of cloth, plastic, or other soft material.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(c)
BANNER SIGN




BENCH SIGN: A sign painted on, attached to, or affixed to any portion of a bench or seating
area at bus stops or other such pedestrian areas.

BILLBOARD SIGNS: Any off site sign, available for rent, on a permanent structure on which
the copy is periodically changed and which is not located on the premises to which such
advertising copy pertains.

BUILDING CANOPY: A rigid multisided structure covered with fabric, metal or other material,
supported by a building at one or more points and by columns or posts at the other points, and
either internally or externally illuminated.

BUILDING SIGN: A permanent sign which is connected to, painted on, attached to, or
otherwise affixed to a building and includes, but is not limited to, a wall, facade, building
canopy, projecting, attached, or awning signs.




                                                189
ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(d)
BUILDING SIGN




CANOPY, BUILDING: See definition of Building Canopy.

CANOPY, FREESTANDING: See definition of Freestanding Canopy.

CANOPY SIGN: A sign painted on, printed on, or attached flat against the surface of a canopy.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(e)
CANOPY SIGN




                                             190
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or illustrations
that can be manually changed or rearranged without altering the face or the surface of the sign. A
sign on which the only copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or
temperature shall be considered a time and temperature portion of a sign and not a changeable
copy sign for purposes of this chapter. A changeable copy sign is also known as reader board,
bulletin board, or message center. A changeable copy sign shall not be animated in any way.
Animated signs are prohibited in all zoning districts, unless otherwise permitted within this title.

DEVELOPMENT: A principal building or use or combination of principal buildings and uses,
under a common plan with a common or shared identity as indicated by commonality of design
and appearance and/or by a commonality of function and use.

DIRECTIONAL SIGN: On site permanent sign used only to direct pedestrians or vehicular
traffic. Directional signage shall include, but not be limited to, signs for entrances, exits, parking
areas, and drive-through establishments. See also definition of Incidental Sign.


ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(f)
DIRECTIONAL SIGNS




ELEVATION: A geometrical projection of a building on a vertical plane.

FACADE SIGN: See definition of Building Sign.

FREESTANDING CANOPY: A rigid multisided structure covered with fabric, metal or other
material and supported by columns or posts and either illuminated internally or externally.


                                                 191
FREESTANDING SIGN: A permanent sign that is set firmly in or upon the ground surface, is
not attached to any building or other structure. Freestanding signs include, but are not limited to,
ground mounted, monument, or pole signs.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(g)
FREESTANDING SIGNS




GRADE: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to a sign or to the
exterior wall of the building to which a sign is affixed.

GROUND MOUNTED SIGN: A freestanding sign with a solid base.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(h)
GROUND MOUNTED SIGN




HEIGHT OF SIGN: See definition of Sign Height.

ILLEGAL SIGN: A sign which was not in compliance with this, or the applicable ordinance
under which it was erected, installed, altered or displayed.



                                                192
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign with an artificial light source incorporated internally or
externally for the purpose of lighting the sign.

INCIDENTAL SIGN: A sign that has a purpose secondary to the use of the lot on which it is
located and is intended merely to provide directions or information. Incidental signs include, but
are not limited to, no parking, entrance, loading only, telephone, and other similar directives. See
also definition of Directional Sign.

LANDMARK SIGN: A permanent sign or visual element that is designated by the Star city
council as having historic and/or architectural significance. A landmark sign shall be at least
twenty (20) years old unless the Star city council makes a finding that a newer sign with historic
and/or architectural significance should be designated to protect it.

MENU BOARD: A drive-thru menu board with or without speakers, as used by restaurants shall
be considered a sign and shall meet the provisions for commercial signs listed in this chapter.

MONUMENT SIGN: A permanent freestanding sign mounted on the ground and designed with
a continuous structural element of approximately the same dimension from the ground to the top
of the sign. See also definitions of Grade and Freestanding Sign.

MURALS: Any piece of artwork painted or applied directly on a wall or other permanent
surface.

NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign that was erected, installed, or displayed in compliance with
previous sign regulations but which is not in compliance with this chapter and which has not
been reconstructed, altered, or otherwise modified since the adoption of this chapter, except to
bring the sign into compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

OFF- PREMISES SIGN: A permanent sign used to identify, display, advertise, or otherwise
direct attention to a location other than the premises on which the sign is located. An off-premise
sign is also referred to as "off- site sign".

ON SITE SIGN: A permanent building sign located at or on the site and/or a product, good, or
service offered on or available at the same lot where the sign is displayed. On site signs shall
include, but are not limited to, attached sign, building sign, window sign, freestanding sign,
projecting sign, and awning sign. An on-site sign is also referred to as "on premises sign".

PERMANENT SIGN: A non-temporary sign designed and intended for long term use.

POLE SIGN: A permanent freestanding sign mounted on the ground, where the structural
element is significantly narrower than the sign.




                                                193
ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(i)
POLE SIGN




PORTABLE SIGN: A temporary sign which is not permanently attached or anchored to the
ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported. Portable signs include,
but are not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, signs converted to A
or T frames, menu and sandwich board signs, balloons or visual elements used as signs;
umbrellas used for advertising, and signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible
from the public right of way.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(j)
PORTABLE SIGNS




                                               194
PROJECTING SIGN: A permanent building sign which is mounted, erected, or otherwise
affixed on a building wall or structure, projecting generally perpendicular to the wall, and
extending beyond the building wall more than twelve inches (12"). Projecting signs also include
suspended signs.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(k)
PROJECTING SIGN




READER BOARD: See definition of Changeable Copy Sign.

ROOF INTEGRAL SIGN: Any building sign erected or constructed as an integral or essentially
integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, so that no part of the sign extends
vertically above the highest portion of the roof and so that no part of the sign is separated from
the rest of the roof by a space of more than six inches (6"). For purposes of this chapter, any
portion of a building above or behind the fascia or parapet of a building shall be considered part
of the roof. See also definition of Building Sign.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(l)
ROOF INTEGRAL SIGN




                                               195
ROOF SIGN: A sign erected and constructed wholly or in part upon, against, or above the roof
of a building. For purposes of this chapter, any portion of a building above or behind the fascia
or parapet of a building shall be considered part of the roof.


ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(m)
ROOF SIGNS




SIGN: Any device, structure, fixture, display, emblem, picture, placard, visual element, or any
parts or combinations thereof using graphics, symbols, and/or written copy for the primary
purpose of identifying, providing directions to, drawing attention to, or advertising any activity,
place, business, office, institution, facility, organization, profession, trade, occupation, product,
good, or service.

SIGN AREA: The total area of the sign face which is used to display a message, not including its
supporting poles or structures.

SIGN HEIGHT: The distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign.

SIGN PLAN: A coordinated plan for developing signs for an individual building or a group of
buildings.

SUBDIVISION IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign used to identify a residential subdivision on
site.

TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign that is made of paper, cardboard, cloth, plastic, fabric, vinyl, wood
or other materials, which is used for a limited period of time, as set forth in this chapter, and
which is not permanently mounted. Temporary signs include, but are not limited to, A-frame,
banner, wind sign, special event sign, mechanically operated portable sign (fan blown, battery
operated mechanisms), etc.



                                                 196
TIME AND/OR TEMPERATURE SIGN: A sign or portion thereof on which the only copy that
changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or temperature.

VISUAL ELEMENT: A substitute for additional signs consisting of temporary and/or permanent
device intended to attract attention to any activity, place, business, office, institution, facility,
organization, profession, trade, occupation, product, good, or service or to convey message
concerning any activity, place, business, office, institution, facility, organization, profession,
trade, occupation, product, good, or service.

WALL SIGN: Any permanent building sign attached parallel to, but within two feet (2') of a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits of any outside wall
of any building, which is supported by such wall or building, and which displays only one sign
surface. Also see definition of Building Sign.

WINDOW SIGN, EXTERIOR: A sign which is mounted, placed, applied, painted, attached or
otherwise affixed on the exterior or outside of a window or to a windowpane or glass and is
visible from the exterior of the window. Exterior window signs are considered permanent
building signs. Window signs shall not have moving text or mechanics.

ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-5(n)
WINDOW SIGNS




                                                197
  WINDOW SIGN, INTERIOR: A sign which is mounted, placed, applied, painted, attached or
  otherwise affixed inside a window or to the interior of a windowpane or glass and is visible from
  the exterior of the window. Interior window signs are not considered building signs.

  8-8A-6: GENERAL SIGN REQUIREMENTS:

  The information contained within this section is intended to be used as criteria in all sections of
  this chapter; however, there may be areas that require more detail or explanation. In those cases,
  the information in those sections shall be used.

  A. General Sign Requirements: All signs shall comply with the following general sign
     requirements:

1. No sign shall be placed in a manner visible from any public street, alley, right of way, sidewalk,
   or other public easement, except as provided herein, nor shall any sign be placed in or extend
   over street, right of way, roadway, sidewalk, public or private utility or access or other easement,
   or alley, except as provided herein and with the approval of the appropriate agency or utility.
   Any sign installed or placed on or over public property or right of way after adoption of this
   chapter, except in conformance with these requirements, shall be forfeited to the public and
   subject to confiscation. In addition to other remedies hereunder, the city shall have the right to
   recover from the owner or person placing such a sign the full cost of removal and disposal of the
   sign.

2. All signs allowed hereunder shall be constructed and placed so as not to obstruct the vision of the
   public at any street, alley, or driveway. Signs otherwise permitted by this chapter may be located
   within the sight distance triangle, as shown below, provided that no part of such sign is placed
   between the height of three feet (3’) and twelve feet (12') above the average grade of each street,
   alley, or driveway. See illustrations for visual clearance and sight distance triangle.




                                                   198
  ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-6(a)
  VISUAL CLEARANCE




  ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-6(b)
  SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE




3. No sign shall be allowed to be illuminated, except as expressly provided herein. Signs which are
   otherwise allowed to be illuminated are not allowed if the administrator finds that the lighting
   adversely affects adjoining residential uses or causes glare or otherwise interferes with the vision
   of persons operating motor vehicles. All illuminated signs shall not be flashing or pulsating and
   shall be constant in intensity and color, unless otherwise allowed herein. Sign lighting shall be
   directed away from all traffic and from all adjoining residential properties, and the lighting
   intensity shall not exceed fifteen (15) foot-candles at any point on the sign face. No sign shall be



                                                   199
  illuminated if lighting is already provided to the area where the sign is to be located. All lighting
  associated with signage shall meet any requirements of this title regarding dark sky standards.

4. No sign shall be allowed to revolve, rotate, or move.

5. No sign shall be allowed if the administrator finds that the sign is constructed or designed in a
   manner which may cause the sign to be confused with a traffic sign or other traffic control
   device.

  B. Sign Area and Height Computations: The following principles shall control the computations
      of sign area and sign height:

1. Computation Of Area Of Individual Signs: The area of a sign face (which is also the sign area of
   a wall sign or other sign with only 1 face), shall be computed by means of the smallest square,
   circle, rectangle, triangle, or combination thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the
   writing, representation, emblem, or other display, together with any material or color forming an
   integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop
   or structure against which it is placed, but not including any supporting framework, bracing or
   decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall is clearly incidental to the display itself.

  ILLUSTRATIONS 8-8A-6(c)
  SIGN AREA COMPUTATIONS




                                                   200
  ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-6(d)
  SIGN AREA COMPUTATION FOR PERMANENT BUILDING SIGN
  With No Defined Sign Background (e.g., Channel Letters)




2. Computation Of Area Of Multifaced Signs: The sign area for a sign with more than one face
   shall be computed by adding together the area of all sign faces visible from any one point. When
   two (2) identical sign faces are placed back-to-back so that both faces cannot be viewed from any
   point at the same time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not
   more than forty-two inches (42") apart, the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of
   one of the faces.

3. Computation Of Height: The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the base of
   the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component of the sign. Normal grade
   shall be construed to be the lower of: a) existing grade prior to construction, or b) the newly
   established grade after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding, or excavating
   solely for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the normal grade cannot reasonably
   be determined, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the normal
   grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public
   street or the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal building on the lot,
   whichever is lower. When sign is within the building setback, the calculation for the sign may
   use either the base elevation or the elevation of the roadway. The computation of sign height
   shall include the permitted sign and any attached changeable copy sign or reader board and the
   sign structure.




                                                   201
ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-6(e)
SIGN HEIGHT COMPUTATION




 ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-6(f)
 SIGN HEIGHT COMPUTATION
 In Cases Where the Normal Grade Cannot Reasonably Be Determined




                                          202
4. Construction Standards: All permitted signs shall be constructed and maintained in compliance
   with the applicable provisions of the city of Star building code and other provisions of the city of
   Star ordinances. All illuminated signs shall be installed in accordance with the applicable
   provisions of the national electric code, and all detached signs shall be so illuminated by an
   underground electrical source.

5. Construction Materials: All signs shall be constructed with durable materials including but not
   limited to metal, aluminum, wood, hard plastics and vinyl, rock or aggregate, or other materials
   manufactured for durability and longevity. Materials such as thin vinyl used for banners, paper or
   cardboard is not considered as a permanent material and shall be prohibited for permanent
   signage.

6. Maintenance Standards: All permitted signs shall be maintained in good structural and aesthetic
   condition. Deficiencies, such as chipped paint, broken plastic, missing letters, and exposed light
   bulbs, shall be evidence of lack of maintenance.

  8-8A-7: SIGNS EXEMPT FROM THIS CHAPTER:

  Provided that the following signs or visual elements comply with the general sign regulations set
  forth in section 8-8A-8 of this article, these signs shall be exempt from all other provisions of
  this chapter:

  A. Traffic signs, public notices or danger warnings required by a valid and applicable federal,
     state, or local law, regulation, and/or ordinance;

  B. Holiday lights and decorations on residential lots;

  C. Traffic control signs on private property, such as stop, yield, and similar signs;

  D. Organizational event signs within a public right of way, provided:

1. Temporary signs must be removed within forty-eight (48) hours of end of event;

2. Signs within the transportation authority rights of way, written permission shall be obtained from
   the transportation authority and presented to the city;

3. Transportation authority permitted ROW signs shall be removed promptly upon the conclusion
   of the event;

  E. Public or semipublic athletic field signs which indicate sponsorship of the teams or announce
      or relate to activities that occur therein, provided:

1. Such signs shall be affixed, placed, or installed on the athletic field fencing and facing the field,
   and

2. Such signs shall not be affixed to scoreboards, buildings, or structures;


                                                    203
  8-8A-8: SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMITS:

  The followings signs are allowed on private property without permits, provided that the signs
  contain no commercial message, logo, or symbol and comply with the general sign regulations
  set forth in this chapter:

  A. Building identification signs, such as address and building marker, provided:

1. One sign, not exceeding four (4) square feet in area, shall be permitted; and

2. Such signs shall be attached to the referenced building.

  A. National, state, local and corporation flags, provided:

1. The United States Of America flag, state of Idaho flag, or flags of any other national or political
   subdivision shall be flown and displayed in a manner so that the flags are not construed as an
   attraction gaining device for the advertising of a product or use, or in a manner to otherwise draw
   the attention of the traveling public to an establishment;

2. One corporation flag may be flown in conjunction with the United States or state of Idaho flag
   and as part of the display in a non-residential zone;

3. Such displays shall not exceed (30) square feet in area in any residential area or fifty (50) square
   feet in any commercial or industrial area;

4. Such displays shall not be flown from a pole the tip of which is more than twenty-five feet (25')
   in height;

5. Such displays shall conform to the criteria established in the ninety-fourth session of congress
   (94-344; SJ resolution 49); and

6. Only one flag display shall be permitted for each establishment, and the display shall be located
   at the principal building of the facility.

  A. Incidental signs that are informational and have a purpose secondary to the use of the lot on
  which it is located, such as no parking, entrance, loading only, telephone, and other similar
  directives.

  8-8A-9: SIGNS WITHIN THE HISTORIC OVERLAY CBD ZONING DISTRICT:

  The number, size, height, and location of signage within a historic overlay zoning district shall
  comply with adopted design guidelines for the central business district and the city of Star
  zoning regulations. Any sign not previously approved by the Star city council as a landmark sign
  will be considered nonconforming as of the enactment of this chapter until found to be
  appropriate by subsequent action of the administrator and/or Star city council.
  All nonconforming signs will be subject to section 8-8A-13 of this article.


                                                   204
  All nonconforming signs within the CBD district will be subject to sections 8-8A-1 through 5,
  and 8-8A-12 through 8-8A-14 of this article.


  8-8A-10: VISUAL ELEMENTS PROHIBITED:

  Visual elements, as defined in section 8-8A-5 of this article, are prohibited in all circumstances
  whether added to a sign or simply displayed on a property, unless otherwise allowed in this
  chapter. Visual elements include, but are not limited to:

  A. Pennants, banners or streamers, feathers, flags, wind or fan blown devices and mechanisms
      intended to otherwise attract attention;

  B. Large or small balloons, unless otherwise provided in this chapter;

  C. Flashing lights, flashing arrows, or other pulsating fixtures or items;

  D. Large inflatable displays, fixed or portable;

  E. Large displays of permanent construction, fixed or portable, that are larger than the maximum
      cube dimensions of six feet (6') in height, four feet (4') in depth, and four feet (4') in width, as
      set forth in subsection 8-8A-11C2b(4)(B) of this article; and

  F. Wording, message, or any symbol, or depiction on the exterior of a building, or any structural
     element thereof, any independent structure or any other article or item on the property
     including automobiles or other vehicles.

  8-8A-11: SIGNS REQUIRING PERMITS:

  The following signs shall not be erected, placed, established, painted, installed, or created until
  an approved sign permit has been issued by the administrator and shall comply with the general
  sign regulations set forth in this chapter and as set forth below:

  A. Residential or Miscellaneous Signs:

1. Subdivision identification signs identifying the subdivision or development name, provided:

a. One sign per each subdivision entrance and one additional sign for each individual subarea of a
   subdivision shall be permitted;

b. Such signs shall be indirectly illuminated;

c. Sign and sign structure shall be sized accordingly, based on the area associated with the sign
   location, and shall be approved by the administrator. The entire sign structure shall not exceed
   ten feet (10’) in height unless approved by the administrator.




                                                     205
d. The sign shall be located within a common area lot, shall be maintained by an HOA, and shall be
   located outside of the clear vision triangle.

2. Building identification signs identifying the name of the owner or occupant of the building,
   provided:

a. One sign shall be permitted and shall not exceed one square foot in area;

b. Such signs shall be attached to the building; and

c. Such signs shall not be illuminated.

3. Multi-family residential development identification signs, provided:

a. One sign shall be permitted and may be wall or ground mounted;

b. Such signs shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area;

c. If ground mounted, the sign shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from the right of way line or
   property line; and

d. Such signs shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height.

4. Directional signs, provided:

a. A multi-family residential development shall be permitted one directional sign per each public
   road/street frontage;

b. Such signs shall be illuminated by indirect or diffused lighting;

c. Such signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet in area; and

d. Such signs shall be wall mounted, or if ground mounted, shall be set back at least five feet (5')
   from the right of way line or property line.

  B. Public or Quasi-Public Signs: Public or quasi-public signs, provided:

1. One sign, not exceeding twenty-five (25) square feet in area and seven feet (7') in height, shall be
   permitted;

2. Such signs may be indirectly or interiorly illuminated; and

3. Such signs may also have one reader board, provided that such reader board shall be attached to
   the principal sign and shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet in area.

  C. Commercial, Professional Office and Industrial Signs:


                                                    206
1. Temporary signs, provided:

a. One sign, not exceeding forty (40) square feet and seven feet (7') in height, and small balloons,
   not exceeding twelve inches (12") in diameter, shall be permitted;

b. Such signs must be securely installed or displayed and shall be constructed or designed in a
   manner which shall not cause the sign to be confused or interfere with a traffic sign or other
   traffic control device;

c. Such signs may be ground mounted or building mounted, and if building mounted, the signage
   shall not extend above the peak, or highest point of the roof;

d. Where a single building or complex of buildings contains two (2) or more principal uses with
   their own separate exterior customer entrances, each principal use located therein shall be
   permitted temporary signage as set forth above; and

e. Each principal use shall be allowed up to four (4) temporary sign permits per calendar year, and
   each permit is granted for one 7-day period.

2. Permanent signs, provided:

a. Maximum Number of Permanent Signs:

(1) Individual Principal Use: An individual principal use located on an individual lot shall be
   allowed a maximum total of four (4) signs, unless otherwise allowed in this chapter.

(2) Multi-Tenant and Multiuse Buildings: Multi-tenant and multiuse building with two (2) or more
   principal uses without their own separate exterior building entrances and exits and sharing a
   common hallway.

(A) The building shall be allowed a maximum total of four (4) permanent signs, unless otherwise
  allowed in this chapter.

(3) Multi-Tenant and Multiuse Buildings and Developments: Multi-tenant and multiuse buildings
   and developments where a single building or complex of buildings contains two (2) or more
   individual principal uses with their own separate exterior building entrances and exits.

(A) Building Signs: Unless otherwise allowed in this chapter, the number and size of permanent
  building signs for each principal use located within the development shall be based on the
  portion of the building elevation occupied by the use.

(B) Freestanding Signs: The number and size of freestanding signs for a multi-tenant and multiuse
  building and development shall be based on the total building size and public street frontage of
  the entire development. Individual buildings and uses within the development shall not be
  permitted individual freestanding signs.




                                                  207
ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-11(a)
MULTIUSE BUILDING SIGN TYPES




b. Permanent Sign Types:

(1) Freestanding Signs:

(A) Developments consisting of less than five thousand (5,000) square feet gross floor space:

(i) Maximum Number of Freestanding Signs: One freestanding sign.

(ii) Maximum Sign Area and Height:

   (a) For freestanding signs with a maximum height of seven feet (7'), the maximum sign area
  shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet.

   (b) For freestanding signs with a maximum height of twenty feet (20'), the maximum sign area
  shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet.

   (c) When a freestanding sign is located more than sixty-five feet (65') from the driving lane of a
  public road/street with forty-five (45) mile per hour (mph) or greater speed limit, the maximum
  sign area shall not exceed seventy (70) square feet, and the maximum sign height shall not
  exceed ten feet (10').


                                                  208
(iii) Minimum Setbacks: The minimum setback for freestanding signs shall be ten feet (10') from
   rear and side property lines and off of the right of way of any public road/street, unless otherwise
   stated in this chapter.

(B) Developments with gross floor space more than five thousand (5,000) square feet:

(i) Maximum Number of Freestanding Signs: Two (2) freestanding signs.

(ii) Maximum Sign Area And Height:

   (a) For freestanding signs with a maximum height of seven feet (7'), the maximum sign area
  shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet.

   (b) For freestanding signs with a maximum height of twenty feet (20'), the maximum sign area
  shall not exceed thirty (30) square feet.

   (c) When a freestanding sign is located more than sixty-five feet (65') from the driving lane of a
  public road/street with forty-five (45) mile per hour (mph) or greater speed limit, the maximum
  sign area shall not exceed seventy (70) square feet, and the maximum sign height shall not
  exceed ten feet (10').

(iii) Minimum Setbacks: The minimum setback for freestanding signs shall be ten feet (10') from
   rear and side property lines and off of the right of way of any public road/street, unless otherwise
   stated in this chapter.

(iv) Minimum Sign Separation: The minimum separation between two (2) freestanding signs on a
   lot or tract shall be one hundred fifty feet (150').

(2) Building Signs:

(A) Maximum Number of Signs:

(i) Individual Principal Use: Each individual principal use located on an individual lot is allowed
   maximum four (4) building signs, unless otherwise allowed herein.

(ii) Multi-Tenant And Multiuse Building: Multi-tenant and multiuse building with two (2) or more
   principal uses without their own separate exterior building entrances and exits and sharing a
   common hallway: The building shall be permitted three (3) building signs, and the sign sizes
   shall be based on the size of elevation as set herein, unless otherwise allowed.

(iii) Buildings Containing Two Or More Principal Uses: Multi-tenant and multiuse buildings and
   where a single building or complex of buildings contains two (2) or more individual principal
   uses with their own separate exterior building entrances and exits: Unless otherwise allowed in
   this chapter, the number and size of building signs for each individual principal use located
   within the development shall be based on the portion of the building elevation occupied by the
   individual principal use, as set forth below, as though they were individual and independent
   buildings.



                                                   209
(B) Total Allowable Building Sign Area Per Elevation:

(i) If the principal use has no freestanding signs, then the total allowable sign area for building
   signs shall be as follows:

   (a) If the business has a total of three (3) building mounted signs, each sign may be up to seven
  percent (7%) of the elevation;

   (b) If the business has a total of two (2) building mounted signs, up to nine percent (9%) of the
  elevation; or

   (c) If the business has one building mounted sign, the sign may be up to eleven percent (11%) of
  the elevation.

(ii) If the principal use has one freestanding sign, the total allowable sign area for building signs
   shall be as follows:

   (a) If the principal use has a total of three (3) building signs, each sign may be up to five percent
  (5%) of the building elevation or thirty (30) square feet, whichever is larger;

   (b) If the principal use has a total of two (2) building signs, each sign may be up to seven
  percent (7%) of the elevation; or

   (c) If the business has only one building sign, each sign may be up to nine percent (9%) of the
  elevation.

(iii) If the principal use has two (2) freestanding signs, then the total allowable building sign area is:

   (a) If the principal use has a total of two (2) building signs, each sign may be up to seven percent
  (7%) of the elevation; or

   (b) If the business has only one building sign, each sign may be up to nine percent (9%).

(C) Building Mounted Signs: Building mounted signs shall not extend above the peak, or highest
  point of the roof.

(D) Projecting Signs:

(i) A projecting sign shall be a substitute for, or in lieu of, one permanent sign for the principal use;

(ii) The sign shall have nine feet (9') of clearance above sidewalk;

(iii) The sign shall not project more than ten feet (10') from building nor be any closer than
   eighteen inches (18") from curb or driving lane;

(iv) The sign shall not extend above the peak of the roof; and

(v) A two (2) or more story building shall not have projecting signs.



                                                    210
(3) Off Premises Signs: Off premises (off-site) signs a prohibited in all zones and may only be
   allowed as part of an overall sign program for properties that are part of a contiguous
   development or subdivision and as approved by the administrator, provided:

(A) The permitted off-premise sign shall not exceed the size, height, and setbacks requirement of
  the freestanding sign of the lot on which it is located;

(B) The off-premise sign may not be located within fifty feet (50') of any other freestanding sign;

(C) Written evidence of property owner consent must be submitted with the permit application;

(D) Off-premise “Welcome to Star” signs are exempt from this prohibition.

(4) Visual Elements:

  ILLUSTRATION 8-8A-11(b)
  VISUAL ELEMENT




(A) One permanent and ground mounted visual element per individual principal use shall be
  permitted as a substitute for, or in lieu of, one permanent sign allowed for the use;

(B) The maximum size of the visual element shall be computed by means of the smallest cube that
  will encompass the extreme limits of the visual element and with maximum cube dimensions of
  six feet (6') in height, four feet (4') in depth, and four (4) in width;



                                                  211
(C) Parts of the visual element may not extend more than twenty percent (20%) beyond the limits
  of the allowable area set forth in subsection C2b(4)(B) of this section;

(D) Visual elements shall have no parts that move or give the appearance of movement and shall
  have no apparent motion caused by, but not limited to, the illusion of moving objects, moving
  patterns or boards of lights, expanding, contracting, or rotating shapes, scrolling, or running
  messages or other similar animation effects;

(E) Visual elements must be securely installed or displayed and shall be constructed or designed in
  a manner which shall cause the sign to be confused or interfere with a traffic sign or other traffic
  control device; and

(F) Commercial messages, logos, or symbols shall be limited to two (2) sides of the visual elements
  and shall not exceed ten (10) square feet.

(5) Landmark Signs:

(A) Such signs shall be exempt from size, height, and setback regulations, but shall comply with all
  other regulations set forth in this chapter, and

(B) Such signs shall not encroach into a public right of way, unless otherwise allowed by an
  approved entrance permit by the appropriate governing authority.

(6) Accessory Building Signs:

(A) One building sign on an accessory building shall be permitted in addition to the building signs
  allowed for the individual principal use;

(B) The maximum sign area shall not exceed one square foot per linear foot of the building length
  of and on the elevation on which the sign is located and facing the public street or private
  accessway if the lot has no public street frontage; and

(C) Additional accessory building signs may be allowed but shall be in lieu of, the permitted
  building signs for the individual principal use and shall comply with the maximum number and
  size of building signs allowed for the individual principal use.

(7) Freestanding Canopy Signs:

(A) One sign on each canopy elevation (fascia) shall be permitted;

(B) Such signs shall not exceed eight (8) square feet; and

(C) Such signs shall be permitted in addition to the building signs allowed for the individual
  principal use.

(8) LI Signs: Light industrial commercial park (LI) identification signs, provided:

(A) One sign per public street entrance shall be permitted;


                                                  212
(B) Such signs shall not exceed forty (40) square feet in area;

(C) A listing of individual businesses and industries shall be allowed as part of the identification
  sign; and

(D) Written evidence of property owner consent must be submitted with the permit application.


  D. Murals: The following conditions shall be met for an allowed mural:

1. Remain unaltered for a minimum of two (2) years and be maintained thereafter to its original
   quality.

2. Shall not exceed height and width of structure.

3. Shall not extend more than six inches (6") from the building facade.

4. Shall not include electrical moving components.

5. Murals are not permitted in residential districts or on residential buildings.

6. Murals and public art installation must comply with city light standards.

7. Digitally printed image murals are allowed for restoration purposes only.

8. Fees for all murals shall be set by resolution.

9. Mural must be of a nature relevant to Star.

10. All murals must be approved by council at a normally scheduled council meeting (no public
  hearing is required).

  8-8A-12: PERMIT PROCESS AND PROCEDURES:

  A. Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
      person to erect, construct, install, mount, place, apply, paint, attach, affix, expand, enlarge,
      move, modify, or replace any sign or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a sign
      permit.

  B. Application and Permit Issuance:

1. If a sign requiring a permit under the provision of this chapter is to be erected, constructed,
   installed, mounted, placed, applied, painted, attached, affixed, expanded, enlarged, moved,
   modified, or replaced on a property, the property owner shall secure a sign permit prior to the
   construction, placement, erection, or modification of the sign.




                                                     213
2. No sign permit of any kind shall be issued for an existing or proposed sign unless the sign is
   consistent with the requirements of this chapter (including those protecting existing signs) in
   every respect and with the sign plan in effect for that property.

3. The following procedures shall govern the application for, and issuance of all sign permits under
   this chapter and the submission and review of sign plans:

a. Sign Plan Required: No permit shall be issued for an individual sign requiring a permit until a
   sign plan for the property on which the sign will be installed has been submitted to and approved
   by the administrator as conforming with this section.

b. Sign Plan Contents: For any property on which the owner proposes to erect one or more signs
   requiring a permit, the owner shall submit to the administrator a sign plan containing the
   following:

(1) An accurate plot plan of the property, at such a scale as the administrator may reasonably
   require with a current legal description in metes and bounds;

(2) Location of existing and proposed buildings, structures, parking lots, driveways, and landscaped
   areas of the property;

(3) Computations of the maximum total sign area, the maximum area for individual signs, the
   height of signs and the number of building and freestanding signs allowed on the property
   included in the plan under this chapter;

(4) An accurate indication on the plot plan of the proposed location of each present and future sign
   of any type whether requiring a permit or not.

  C. Fees:

1. Permit Fees: No sign permit shall be issued until all applicable fees have been paid. The fees for
   sign permits, as adoption by resolution of the city council, may be adjusted by the city as
   necessary, periodically.

2. Late Fees: In addition to the sign permit fees, the administrator shall also assess a late fee, as
   adopted by resolution, to any applicant who erects, places, establishes, paints, installs, creates, or
   in any other way initiates a sign prior to receiving the property permit or approval from the
   administrator. This fee is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any penalties for violations of the
   regulations. Payment of this late fee will in no way exonerate or excuse the applicant from
   applying in an appropriate manner and complying with the normal requirements and standard
   permit fees for the permission or applicable permit which is needed.

  D. Review: The administrator shall review the application for completeness. If the application is
     complete, the administrator shall process the application. If the application is incomplete, the
     administrator shall notify the applicant of the deficiencies and reference the appropriate




                                                    214
      sections of this chapter. Upon correcting the deficiencies, the administrator will process the
      application.

  E. Issuance Of Permits: All sign permit applications shall be reviewed by the administrator or
      designee allowing submission and/or official acceptance of a complete application, for
      compliance with these regulations. Once a determination regarding the sign permit
      application has been made the administrator will:

1. Issue a letter of compliance to the applicant, with conditions if any, if the sign that is the subject
   of the application conforms in every respect with the requirements of this chapter and the
   applicable sign plan; or

2. Deny the sign permit and issue a written statement to the applicant, if the sign that is the subject
   of the application fails in any way to conform with the requirements of this chapter and of the
   applicable sign plan. In case of a rejection, the administrator shall specify in the rejection the
   section or sections of this chapter or applicable plan with which the sign is inconsistent.

  F. Appeals: All appeals and variances from the requirements of these regulations shall be
      scheduled for public hearing.

  8-8A-13: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:

  A. For the purpose of this section, a "nonconforming sign" shall be defined as a sign existing at
      the effective date hereof which could not be built under the terms of this chapter or under the
      terms of other applicable local ordinances. The following requirements apply to the
      continued use of and/or replacement of nonconforming signs:

1. Continued Use: A nonconforming sign may continue to be used by the establishment occupying
   the structure on the site for which the sign was originally erected, as long as no major structural
   support element (frame, pole, bracing, etc.) is replaced. If a major structural support element is to
   be replaced, due to voluntary action by the owner, or due to an act of God or unforeseen
   circumstance, then the new sign to be erected must be in compliance with this chapter.

2. Replacement: The sign face of a nonconforming sign may be replaced as long as no major
   structural element of the sign is replaced. As stated above, if a major structural element is to be
   replaced, then the new sign to be erected must be in compliance with this chapter.

3. Change in Use: Where a change in land use, occupancy, or ownership occurs which necessitates
   the altering of a sign in any manner, then the altered or changed sign shall be brought into
   conformance with the requirements of this chapter.

4. Existence of Nonconforming Building Sign: Existence of a nonconforming building sign on the
   premises will prohibit issuance of further building sign permits while the nonconforming sign
   exists.




                                                    215
5. Existence of Nonconforming Freestanding Sign: Existence of a nonconforming freestanding sign
   on the premises will prohibit the issuance of further freestanding sign permits while the
   nonconforming sign exists.

6. Limitations And Removal Of Nonconforming Signs: In the event a use or establishment ceases
operation for a period of thirty (30) days, the sign owner, lessee, or property owner shall
immediately remove any nonconforming signs identifying or advertising the business or any
product. This requirement shall not apply where, under the provisions of this chapter, an existing,
conforming sign may be altered to advertise a new principal use, business, establishment, or
product, and there is evidence that a new establishment will be in operation on the premises within
thirty (30) days. Where no such evidence exists, the sign face shall be removed, or the message
shall be painted over in such a manner as to completely cover up or hide from sight the message.
Upon failure of the sign owner, lessee, or property owner to comply with this section, the
administrator shall issue a written notice to the owner. The notice shall state that the sign shall be
removed within fifteen (15) days. If the owner fails to comply with the written notice to remove the
sign, the administrator is hereby authorized to cause removal of the sign. Any expense incidental to
the removal of the sign shall be charged to the owner and shall constitute a lien upon the property.
For the purpose of dealing with nonconforming signs in this section, the word "remove" shall
mean:

a. The sign face, along with posts, columns, or supports of freestanding signs, shall be taken down
   and removed from the property;

b. The sign face and supporting structures of projection, roof or wall signs shall be taken down and
   removed from the property;

c. The sign face of painted wall signs shall be removed by painting over the wall sign in such a
manner as to completely cover up and hide from sight the sign in question.

 7. Nonconforming animated signs - The property owner of a nonconforming animated sign shall
continue to abide by the original standards for approval of the sign including the following: 1. Such
sign shall not flash, scroll, chase, rotate, blink or pulsate or have any similar effects of movement;
2. Such sign shall not include any animated images and images which move or give the appearance
of movement and shall not have visual messages with apparent motion caused by, but not limited
to, the illusion of moving objects, moving patterns or boards of lights, expanding, contracting, or
rotating shapes, scrolling or running messages, or other similar animation effects;
3. Such sign shall be programmed so that the text changes no more than every minute, and such
changes of text shall be substantially instantaneous as seen by the human eye and shall not use
fading, rolling, window shading, dissolving, or similar effects as part of the change;
4.Such signs shall use automated light sensing devices to reduce light levels at night and under
cloudy or other darkened conditions, in accordance with the following standards:
a. Such electronic signs shall have installed automated light sensing devices (e.g., photocell
technology) and shall, at all times, allow such monitors to automatically adjust the brightness level
based on ambient light conditions; and
b. Maximum brightness levels for such electronic signs shall not exceed five hundred (500) nits,
when measured from the sign face at its maximum brightness, during night and under cloudy or


                                                  216
other darkened conditions;
5. The maximum resolution of such signs shall be forty-six-millimeter (46 mm) (1.8 inch) pixel
pitch.
6. Any electronic sign which malfunctions, fails, or ceases to operate in its usual or normal
programmed manner causing therein motion, movement, flashing, or any other similar effects, shall
be repaired or disconnected within forty-eight (48) hours by the owner or operator of such sign.

  8-8A-14: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES:

  A. Signs Forfeited: Any sign installed or placed on or over public property or right of way after
      adoption of this chapter, except in conformance with these requirements, shall be forfeited to
      the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other remedies hereunder, the city shall
      have the right to recover from the owner or person placing such a sign the full cost of
      removal and disposal of the sign.

  B. Violations:

1. Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the enforcement
   remedies and penalties provided by this chapter and by Idaho state code:

a. To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a way that is inconsistent with any plan or permit
   governing such sign or the lot on which the sign is located.

b. To install, create, erect or maintain any sign requiring a permit without such a permit.

c. To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of this
   chapter, or for which the sign permit has lapsed.

2. Each day of a continued violation shall be considered a separate violation when applying the
   penalty portions of this chapter.

  C. Enforcement:

1. The city shall have the authority to issue citations for violations of this chapter but shall not have
   powers of peace officers to make arrests or carry deadly weapons. A person receiving a citation
   shall appear within a designated time pursuant to the citation.

2. Any violation or attempted violation of this chapter or of any condition or requirement adopted
   pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected, or abated, as the case may be, by injunction or
   other appropriate proceedings pursuant to state law. The remedies of the city shall include, but
   are not limited to, the following:

a. Issuing a stop work order for any and all work on any signs on the same lot;

b. Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement that requires the removal of the
   sign(s) or the correction of the nonconformity; and


                                                    217
c. In the case of a sign that poses an immediate danger to the public health or safety; take such
   measures as are available to the city under the applicable building codes or other ordinances.

d. All the remedies provided herein shall be cumulative. To the extent that state law may limit the
   availability of a particular remedy set forth herein for a certain violation or a part hereof, the
   remedy shall remain available for other violations or other parts of the same violation.




                                                   218
                                             ARTICLE D B.

                         LANDSCAPE AND BUFFER AREA STANDARDS

8-8DB-1: PURPOSE:
8-8D-B2: APPLICABILITY:

8-8CB-1: PURPOSE:

A. The regulations of this article are intended to promote landscaping in the city of Star that will
   improve the community livability, preserve the quality of life, and enhance the aesthetic
   quality, economic viability, and environmental health of the city.

B. The city of Star recognizes that landscaping can be a significant expense to business people
   and residents. At the same time, landscaping improves the livability of residential
   neighborhoods, enhances the appearance and customer attraction of commercial areas,
   increases property values, improves the compatibility of adjacent uses, screens undesirable
   views, and can reduce air and noise pollution.

C. The intent of these regulations is to achieve a balance between the right of individuals to
   develop and maintain their property in a manner they prefer and the rights of residents to
   live, work, shop, and recreate in pleasant, healthy, and attractive surroundings.

D. These regulations are intended to promote the use of native and other low water use plant
   materials and to discourage landscaping that requires high water use for maintenance, such as
   large expanses of lawn.

8-8CB-2: APPLICABILITY:

A. A landscape plan shall be required for all development applications requiring an architectural
   review, including, but not limited to, new residential subdivisions, all non-residential
   development, redevelopment, additions, and/or site modifications as required by the
   administrator.

The landscape plan shall be drawn to scale (no smaller than 1-inch equals 30 feet) and shall
indicate the following:1. Boundaries, property lines, and dimensions.
2. Existing trees identified by species and size.
3. The location and design of areas to be landscaped.
4. The location and labels for all proposed plants.
5. Plant lists or schedules with the botanical and common name, quantity, and spacing and size
of all proposed landscape material at the time of planting.
6. Location and description of other landscape improvements, such as earth berms, walls, fences,
screens, sculptures, fountains, street furniture, lights, and courts or paved areas.
7. Planting and installation details as necessary to ensure conformance with all required
standards.




                                                219
B. Plan Preparation: Preparing a landscape plan requires special skills. Landscaping involves
more than a simple arrangement of plants with irrigation; plants are not haphazardly placed in a
way that fills up leftover space. Landscape plans should reflect a theme so that site elements are
artfully and technically organized in a way that conveys meaning, coherence, and spatial
organization. Landscaping should enhance the physical environment as well as the project's
aesthetic character. Therefore, landscape plans to be submitted for approval shall be prepared by
or under the responsible control of a licensed landscape architect with said plans to be duly
stamped to clearly identify the preparer.

C. Landscape As Percent Of Site:
1. Open space shall be designated as a total of 15% of the total gross acreage of the development
for residential developments in all zones with densities greater than R-1. A minimum of 10% of
the total gross acreage of the development shall be for useable open space. Planter strips on
internal streets where detached sidewalks are provided may be counted towards the total open
space. Planter strips must meet all requirements of the City and ACHD/CHD4. Uniquely
designed subdivision entrances may be considered as a required open space amenity.
2. Hardscape areas, such as plazas, decorative concrete/paver patios that are integrated into the
design of the useable landscaped area, may be included in the landscape coverage requirement.
3. All landscape improvements required in this section shall count toward fulfillment of the
above minimum percentages.

D. Prohibited Materials And Landscaping:
1. No required landscape areas shall include artificial trees, plants, or any carpeting designed as a
vegetative substitute, unless otherwise approved by the Administrator and Council.
2. Clear vision triangle shall be complied with in regard to all vegetation.
3. When the city determines that a sight obstruction exists, it shall notify the owner of the
property upon which the obstruction is located and order that the obstruction be removed within
fifteen (15) days. The failure of the owner to remove the obstruction shall be punishable as
provided for in this title.

E. Installation And Minimum Standards:
1. Applicants are required to use the Treasure Valley Tree Selection Guide (most recent version);
2. sidewalks along arterial roadways shall be detached and be at least 60 inches in width, unless
otherwise approved by council.
3. Accepted nursery standards (American Standard for Nursery Stock – ASNS) and practices
shall be followed in the planting and maintenance of landscaped areas.
4 Soil and slope stabilization must result after landscape installation. Any disturbed areas within
project must have landscaping.
5. Root barriers shall be installed for all new trees planted adjacent to existing or proposed public
or private sidewalks and paving (under 8 feet in width for parkways, or as determined by the
Transportation Authority).
6. The minimum acceptable size for deciduous trees shall be two-inch (2") caliper, balled and bur
lapped, per ASNS standard detail.
7. The minimum acceptable size for evergreen trees shall be six feet (6'), balled and bur lapped,
per ASNS standard detail.
8. Planting selection shall adhere to USDA and/or climate zone requirements.



                                                220
9. It is the responsibility of the developer to insure proper installation of all trees, including the
removal of twine and wire, and the rollback of bur lap, prior to Certificate of Completion.
10. a. Certification Of Completion: Upon the completion of the landscape installation, or other
improvements subject to architectural review approval, a written certification of completion shall
be prepared by the licensed landscape architect responsible for the landscape plan. The
certification of completion shall state that the installation of all landscape improvements, and site
amenities, if applicable, is in substantial compliance with the city approved landscape plan. This
certification shall be submitted prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, signature of a
final plat, or release of bond, and is required as a part of, and not in lieu of, the inspections
performed, and certificates issued by the city.
b. Report Of Deficiencies: In the event that deficiencies are present after the landscape
installation, or other improvements subject to design review approval, the licensed landscape
architect shall prepare and file with the city a report noting the deficiencies in the improvements.
The city will not accept a certification of completion, or issue a certificate of occupancy, until the
licensed landscape architect has verified that the deficiencies have been corrected.
c. Landscape Architect Designee: The licensed landscape architect may, at his or her discretion,
appoint an authorized designee to certify the project provided that the designee is a licensed
landscape architect.

F. Tree Species Mix:
1. When more than ten (10) trees are to be planted to meet the requirements of these guidelines, a
mix of species shall be provided. The number of species to be planted shall vary according to the
overall number of trees required to be planted. Species shall be planted in proportion to the
required mix. See the table below:
     Required Number Of Trees        Minimum Number Of Species


     11 - 20                         2
     21 - 30                         3
     31 - 40                         4
     41 plus                         5


G. Maintenance:
1. All required landscaping shall be permanently maintained in a healthy growing condition by
the property owner or the property owner's representative and/or homeowners association. This
includes the maintenance of street trees and/or other landscape materials within or abutting the
public right of way adjacent to the subject property. The property owner, property owner's
representative and/or homeowners association shall remove, and if required to meet the standards
of these requirements, shall replace any unhealthy or dead plant material immediately or as the
planting season permits. In all cases, maintenance and planting within public rights of way shall
be with approval from the public and/or private entities owning the property. At no time shall
required landscaping be removed from an approved development and not replaced with a similar
plant type. FOLLOW THE APPROVED LANDSCAPE PLAN


                                                 221
H. Completion Time:
1. The administrator may authorize a delay in the completion of planting due to inclement
weather conditions or other extenuating circumstances, if a surety for one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the cost of incomplete improvements is provided to the city.

I. Irrigation Required: An underground automatic irrigation system is required for all
development requiring landscaping.
1. All required landscaped areas must be provided with an automatic underground irrigation
system.
2. The system shall be equipped with a reduced pressure backflow prevention device.
3. The system shall be designed and constructed to provide one hundred percent (100%) spray
coverage.
4. Wherever feasible, sprinkler heads irrigating lawn or other high-water demand landscape areas
shall be circuited so that they are on a separate zone or zones from those irrigating trees,
shrubbery or other reduced water demand areas.
5. Sprinkler heads shall be placed as required to reduce direct overthrow onto non-pervious areas
(walks, drives, etc.). Drip irrigation is recommended for shrubs and trees.
6. The use of low trajectory spray nozzles is encouraged in order to reduce the effect of wind
velocity on the spray system.
7. Use of non-potable water for use in the irrigation of lawn and plant material is required when
determined to be available.
8. All non-potable water access points shall be clearly and permanently labeled with markers
indicating that the water is not safe for human consumption.
9. Maintain all irrigation systems to ensure proper operation and water conservation.
10. Irrigation drainage run-off from one lot or property shall not encroach onto another lot.

J. Buffer Areas/Common Lots:
1. Definition: Development or buffer area consists of horizontal space (land) and vertical
elements (plants, berms, fences, or walls). The purpose of such buffer space is to physically
separate and visually screen adjacent land uses which are not fully compatible due to differing
facilities, activities, or different intensities of use, such as townhouses and a convenience store,
or a high-volume roadway and residential dwellings.
2. Minimum Requirements:
a. When a commercial or industrial use abuts a residential use, a ten foot (10') wide by six foot
(6') high landscaped buffer is required except in the CBD.
b. When a parking lot abuts a residential activity, a five foot (5') wide by six foot (6') high
landscaped buffer is required except in the CBD.
c. To conceal outdoor storage areas, trash receptacles, exposed equipment associated with any
commercial or industrial activity, and off-street loading when adjacent to or in view from a
residential activity or public street right of way, a three foot (3') wide by six foot (6') high
landscaped buffer is required.
3. Materials:
a. All buffer areas shall be comprised of, but not limited to, a mix of evergreen and deciduous
trees, shrubs, and ground cover.
b. Height requirements shall be accomplished with plant material, with a fence or decorative



                                                 222
wall, or a combination thereof.
c. The required buffer area shall result in an effective barrier within three (3) years and be
maintained such that sixty percent (60%) or more of the vertical surface is closed and prevents
the passage of vision through it.
4. Major Roadways: New residential developments, including, but not limited to, subdivisions
and multi-family developments, shall be buffered from streets classified as collectors, arterials,
freeways, or expressways, to protect residential communities from noisy, potentially dangerous,
high-speed roads. The "buffer area" shall be defined as a common lot located between the
residential lots within the subdivision and the right of way line of the adjacent roadway. This
buffer is required as part of the common area open space owned and maintained by a
homeowners' association. All developments are encouraged to work with the appropriate
transportation agency to landscape unused right of way. Any landscaping proposed to be within
the public right of way shall not be calculated in the overall open space requirements and shall
not be included as a part of the buffer area required below. The height for berming/fencing, as
noted below, shall be measured from the elevation of the final grade of the adjacent roadway
(measured at the centerline) to the top of the proposed berming/fencing. The required buffer area
width, plantings, and fencing are as follows:

a. Any road designated as a collector on the applicable highway district function class map:

       A minimum of twenty feet (20') wide buffer area (not including right of way) shall be
       provided with the following plants per one hundred (100) linear feet of right of way: two
       (2) shade trees, two (2) evergreen trees. Each required shade tree may be substituted with
       two (2) flowering/ornamental trees, provided that not more than fifty percent (50%) of
       the shade trees are substituted.

       A minimum five foot (5') high buffer consisting of a berm, wall, fence, or combination
       thereof shall be provided within the buffer area. The maximum slope for any berm shall
       be three feet (3') horizontal distance to one foot (1') vertical distance. Unsightly fencing
       shall not be permitted.

b. Any road designated as a minor arterial on the applicable highway district function class map:

       A minimum of thirty (30') wide buffer area (not including right of way) shall be provided
       with the following plants per one hundred (100) linear feet of right of way: three (3)
       shade trees, three (3) evergreen trees, eight (8) shrubs. Each required shade tree may be
       substituted with two (2) flowering/ornamental trees, provided that not more than fifty
       percent (50%) of the shade trees are substituted.

       A minimum five foot (5') high buffer consisting of a berm, wall, fence, or combination
       thereof shall be provided within the buffer area. The maximum slope for any berm shall
       be three feet (3') horizontal distance to one foot (1') vertical distance. Unsightly fencing
       shall not be permitted.

c. Any road designated as a principal arterial on the applicable highway district function class map:




                                                223
       A minimum of forty feet (40') wide buffer area (not including right of way) shall be
       provided with the following plants per one hundred (100) linear feet of right of way: four
       (4) shade trees, three (3) evergreen trees, two (2) flowering/ornamental trees, and twelve
       (12) shrubs. Each required shade tree may be substituted with two (2)
       flowering/ornamental trees, provided that not more than fifty percent (50%) of the shade
       trees are substituted.

       A minimum seven foot (7') high buffer consisting of a berm, wall, fence, or combination
       thereof shall be provided within the buffer area. The maximum slope for any berm shall
       be three feet (3') horizontal distance to one foot (1') vertical distance. Unsightly fencing
       shall not be permitted.

5. Common Area Landscapes: New residential subdivision common area landscapes shall be
comprised of the following:
a. Lawn, either seed or sod.
b. A minimum of one deciduous shade tree per four thousand (4,000) square feet.
6. Design Considerations For Residential Developments:
a. For design flexibility, half of the required shade trees may be substituted on a two to one (2:1)
basis with ornamental and evergreen trees.
b. Buffer areas should include a variety of species, arranged to create varied and attractive views.
Open fences, decorative walls, and berms may be used. Height changes, offset angles, different
materials, and other design techniques are required so as to create variety.

K. Parking Lot Landscaping:
1. Visual Impact: Landscaping shall be provided to minimize the visual impact of off-street
parking:

Parking should be located to the side and rear of buildings, when possible, and shall be enhanced
with landscaping so that it does not dominate the streetscape. Fences, hedges, berms, and
landscaping may be used to limit view of parking areas (chain link fencing shall not be
permitted). In the design of large parking areas, arrange bays of parking spaces to be separated
by landscaping. When parking lots occur on sloping terrain, step the parking lots to follow the
terrain rather than allowing the lot surface to extend above natural grade.
2. Parking Lot Landscape Strip: A landscape strip shall be provided when a parking lot is located
adjacent to a public right of way. The landscaped strip shall serve to limit views of parked cars to
passing motorists and pedestrians, and to establish coordination among architecturally diverse
buildings, which creates a pleasing, harmonious appearance along the roadway.

Three (3) options are provided for fulfilling this requirement:
a. Provide an eight-foot (8’) wide landscaped strip between the right of way and the parking lot,
and plant with a minimum of one shade tree and eight (8) shrubs per thirty-five (35) linear feet of
frontage, excluding driveway openings.
b. Provide an earth berm of thirty inches (30") minimum height (do not exceed 3:1 slope) within
a fifteen foot (15’) wide landscaped strip between the right of way and the parking lot, and plant
with a minimum of one shade tree per thirty-five (35) linear feet of frontage, excluding driveway
openings.



                                                224
c. Provide a three-foot (3’) high fence of wood, brick, stone, or decorative block or concrete
along with a four-foot (4') wide landscaped strip between the right of way and the parking lot,
and plant a minimum of one shade tree and three (3) shrubs per thirty-five (35) linear feet of
frontage, excluding driveway openings.
(1) The administrator may waive the requirement for a wood, brick, stone, decorative block or
concrete fence if the board finds the following:

(A) The property is within the CBD; or

(B) Any such proposed design alternative is compatible with the overall site design of the entire
project and is compatible with the surrounding area.
3. Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping: Perimeter landscaping requirements define parking areas
and prevent two (2) adjacent lots from becoming one large expanse of paving. This requirement
does not hinder the ability to provide vehicular access between lots.
a. Provide a minimum five foot (5') wide perimeter landscaped strip between the property lines
and the parking lot, and plant with a minimum of one shade tree per thirty-five (35) linear feet of
perimeter, unless the adjacent project has required trees planted, as determined by the
administrator.
4. Parking Lot Interior Landscaping:
a. Calculated Amount: Interior parking lot landscaping shall be required on any parking lot with
ten (10) spaces and above. The required amount of landscaping is based on a sliding scale, as
follows:


                  Percent Of Total Area Of
     Total Number A Lot That Must Be An
     Of Spaces    Interior Landscaped Area


     10 - 20          3 percent
     21 - 50          5 percent
     51+             8 percent


b. Additional Requirements:
(1) No interior planter shall be less than five feet (5') average dimension.
(2) There shall be a landscaped parking island every ten (10) spaces.
(3) Parking islands are to be as evenly spaced as feasible throughout the lot to consistently
reduce the visual impact of long rows of parked cars.
(4) Deciduous shade trees and ground covers or low shrubs are recommended as primary
plantings in interior landscaped areas. Deciduous shade trees are to be clear branched to a height
of six feet (6').
(5) A terminal island for a single row of parking spaces shall be landscaped with at least one tree
and shrubs, ground cover, or grass. A terminal island for a double row of parking spaces shall
contain not less than two (2) trees and shrubs, ground cover, or grass.



                                               225
L. Landscaped Commercial Strips:
1. Except in the CBD, landscaped strips shall be provided between all building development and
public rights of way to lend continuity among different architectural styles, screen unsightly
views, establish a pleasing view for motorists, and create a safe and pleasant corridor for
pedestrians.
a. The landscaped strip shall be five feet (5') wide minimum and planted with one shade tree and
five (5) shrubs for every thirty-five feet (35') of street frontage. Two (2) ornamental or two (2)
evergreen trees may be substituted for one shade tree.

M. Parkway Strips, Separated Sidewalks, And Street Trees:
1. Along arterials and collectors designated on the highway district functional class map and for
subdivision entry roads for the first 180 feet, sidewalks shall be separated from the curb. An
eight-foot (8') wide minimum parkway planter strip planted with shade class (class II) trees shall
be required between the sidewalk and curb.
2. A minimum of one street tree shall be planted for every thirty-five (35) linear feet of street
frontage.
3. In all cases, any planting within public rights of way shall be with approval from the public
and/or private entities owning the property.
4. Local streets are encouraged to have detached sidewalks.

N. Alternative Methods Of Compliance:
1. Project Conditions: It is not the intent of these landscape requirements to inhibit creative
solutions to land use problems. Under certain site conditions, a strict interpretation of
requirements may be either physically impossible or impractical. Alternative compliance is a
procedure that allows certain modifications to existing regulations within this section. Requests
for use of alternative landscaping schemes are justified only when one or more of the following
conditions apply:
a. The sites involve space limitations or unusually shaped parcels;
b. Topography, soil, vegetation, or other site conditions are such that full compliance is
impossible or impractical;
c. Due to a change of use of an existing site, the required buffer yard is larger than can be
provided; and
d. Safety considerations are involved.
e. Requirements from outside agencies or jurisdictions (i.e., Transportation Authority,
Irrigation/Drainage Districts, Fire Districts and Utility Companies).
2. Request For Alternative Method Of Compliance: The applicant must provide the city with a
written request if an alternative method of compliance is proposed. The request shall state which
requirement as set forth within this section is to be modified, what project conditions of this
section justify using the proposed alternative, and how the proposed alternative equals or exceeds
said requirement.

O. Approved Tree List: Applicants are required to use the Treasure Valley Tree Selection Guide.

P. Changes to Approved Plans: Any changes to the approved landscape plan at any time shall be
reviewed and approved by staff prior to installation. A revised landscape plan shall be submitted



                                               226
at the time of the change.




                             227
