Multifamily Seller/Servicer Guide
Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms




  Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms (08/25/26)
  abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz

  Glossary

  30 Days Delinquent

  See Delinquency.

  55-Day Multi PC

  A 55-Day Multi PC is a Participation Certificate (PC) in which the payments by Borrowers on the 55-Day Multi
  PC Securitized Mortgages are passed through, with a payment delay of 55 days, to the holders of the 55-Day
  Multi PCs.

  55-Day Multi PC Securitized Mortgages

  55-Day Multi PC Securitized Mortgages are Mortgages that are pooled in 55-Day Multi PCs.

  Acceptance Letter

  An Acceptance Letter is used by Freddie Mac to indicate its acceptance of an early rate lock application with
  nonmaterial modifications. The Seller will be bound by the terms of any Acceptance Letter.

  Accounting Net Yield

  The Accounting Net Yield is the net yield rate that the Servicer uses to report and remit interest to Freddie Mac
  on a monthly basis. The Accounting Net Yield equals the Required Net Yield except for Mortgages sold to
  Freddie Mac at a discount or at a premium.

  Active Mortgage

  An Active Mortgage is a Mortgage on which the Borrower's payments are current, or a Delinquent Mortgage
  that has not been deactivated by the Servicer for accounting and reporting purposes.

  Activity of Daily Living

  See Section 21.2.

  Actual Cash Value

  See Section 31.1(c).




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 1

         The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs ® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the
         AllRegs web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Actual Loan/Mortgage Amount

    See Sections 17A.11(e), 19A.13(e) and 25A.8(b).

    Additional Actual Loan/Mortgage Amount

    See Sections 17A.11(e), 19A.13(e) and 25A.8(b).

    Additional Actual Loan/Mortgage Amount Percentage

    See Sections 17A.11(e), 19A.13(e) and 25A.8(b).

    Adjustable-rate Mortgage

    See Floating-Rate Mortgage.

    Adverse Action Notice

    An oral or written communication to a Borrower informing them of the refusal to grant an application for an
    extension of credit that includes all the information required by law. See Section 10.13.

    Affiliated Persons of the Seller/Servicer

    Affiliated Persons of the Seller/Servicer include the following:

    1. The Seller/Servicer's directors, officers, employees and controlling persons

    2. Spouses or domestic partners of the Seller/Servicer's directors, officers and controlling persons

    3. Members of the immediate family of the Seller/Servicer's directors, officers and controlling persons who
       have the same home as such persons

    4. Individuals who are directors or officers of any subsidiary or holding company affiliate of the Seller/Servicer

    5. Corporations or organizations (other than the Seller/Servicer or a corporation or organization through
       which the Seller/Servicer operates) of which a director, officer or controlling person of the Seller/Servicer is

       •   An officer or partner

       •   Directly or indirectly, either alone or with his or her spouse or domestic partner, the owner of 10 percent
           or more of any class of equity securities

       •   Owner with other directors, officers and controlling persons of the Seller/Servicer and their spouses or
           domestic partners of 25 percent or more of any class of equity securities

    6. Trusts or other estates in which a director, officer or controlling person of the Seller/Servicer or the spouse
       or domestic partner of such person has a substantial beneficial interest or for which such person or his or
       her spouse or domestic partner serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity



                                                                                            Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 2
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Affiliates of the Borrower

    Affiliates of the Borrower include any person or entity who Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common
    Control with the Borrower.

    Agreed Amount Provision or Agreed Value Endorsement

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Annual Inspection Form

    See Section 40.2.

    Anti-Money Laundering Laws

    Anti-Money Laundering Laws are the applicable federal anti-money laundering laws and regulations including
    18 U.S. C. Sections 1956 and 1957, as amended.

    Applicable Freddie Mac Multifamily Regional Office

    The Applicable Freddie Mac Multifamily Regional Office is the Freddie Mac Regional Office that has jurisdiction
    over a multifamily Mortgage purchase. The addresses for Freddie Mac's Multifamily Regional Offices are set
    forth in the Seller/Servicer Guide Directory.

    Appraisal

    An Appraisal is a report setting forth an estimate or opinion of value prepared by an appraiser having the
    qualifications described in Sections 60.4 and 60.5.

    Approved Structured Lender

    An Approved Structured Lender is a Seller/Servicer that has an approved designation with the ability to
    complete Freddie Mac Multifamily Structured Transactions on a continuous basis, as stated in Section 3.1(b).

    Assisted Living Residence

    See Section 21.2.

    Benchmarking Data

    Benchmarking Data is the Property’s energy and water usage entered by the Benchmarking Data Consultant in
    Portfolio Manager® and which meets the requirements set forth in the term sheet located on the Freddie Mac
    Multifamily website. If Portfolio Manager® is no longer available, the Benchmarking Data Consultant may enter
    the data into another benchmarking tool identified by Freddie Mac.

    Benchmarking Data Consultant

    Benchmarking Data Consultant is a third-party consultant retained by Borrower and acceptable to Lender that
    is qualified to collect, input and monitor Benchmarking Data from the Mortgaged Property.


                                                                                            Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 3
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Benchmarking Metrics

    Benchmarking Metrics are measures of Property utility consumption performance provided through Portfolio
    Manager.

    Blanket Insurance Limit

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Blanket Insurance Policy

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Bond Credit Enhancement Forward Commitment

    See definition of Construction Phase Letter of Credit.

    Borrower

    The Borrower is the party obligated to repay the indebtedness secured by the Property. The Borrower must, in
    Freddie Mac's judgment, have sufficient financial, operational and management capacity. Acceptable
    Borrowers are described in Section 9.2.

    Borrower Principal

    A Borrower Principal is:

    •   Any Key Borrower Principal

    •   Any person or entity that has Control (direct or indirect) of the Borrower, Borrower-affiliated Seniors
        Housing Operator, and Borrower-affiliated Master Tenant, including any one or more of the following:

        o   General partner of a general partnership or a limited partnership

        o   Non-member manager, managing member, or members of the board of managers of a limited liability
            company

        o   The settlor (grantor) of a living or revocable trust

        o   The trustee of an irrevocable trust

    •   Any person or entity that is pre-approved by lender to assume Control (direct or indirect) of the Borrower,
        Borrower-affiliated Seniors Housing Operator, or Borrower-affiliated Master Tenant

    •   Any person or entity with an aggregate interest (whether direct or indirect) in the Borrower equal to or
        exceeding 25 percent including any (i) equitable ownership interest or (ii) any beneficial interest in an
        Illinois Land Trust, irrevocable trust or Delaware Statutory Trust

    •   A LIHTC Syndicator

    •   Any person or entity that Freddie Mac determines to be a Borrower Principal
                                                                                             Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 4
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms



    Borrower Transaction Parties

    See Section 7.1.

    Breakage Fee

    The Breakage Fee is the fee, as set forth in the Letter of Commitment, Forward Commitment or early rate lock
    application, that the Borrower will owe the Seller and the Seller will owe Freddie Mac if there is a Nondelivery
    or in certain cases, if Freddie Mac Rejects the early rate lock application.

    Business Continuity Plan

    See Section 2.20.

    Business Day

    A Business Day is a day other than:

    •   A Saturday or Sunday

    •   A day on which the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (or other agent acting as Freddie Mac's fiscal
        agent) is authorized or obligated by law or executive order to remain closed

    •   A day on which the principal offices of Freddie Mac are closed

    •   A day on which the offices of the federal government located in the District of Columbia are generally
        closed

    In the Guide, the word "day" without the modifier "business" refers to a calendar day.

    Business Disruption

    See Section 2.20.

    Capitalization Rate

    The Capitalization Rate is the percentage rate that represents the proper relationship between the value of the
    Property and the Net Operating Income that the Property produces.

    Captive Insurance Company or Captive Insurer

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Cash Forward Commitment

    See definition of Construction Phase Letter of Credit.




                                                                                            Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 5
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Certified Inspector

    See Section 40.13(b).

    Certified Organizational Chart

    A Certified Organizational Chart is an Organizational Chart that is attached to Form 1114, Certification –
    Organizational Chart. If the Certified Organizational Chart is revised, the Borrower must submit a new Form
    1114, Certification – Organizational Chart, with the revised Organizational Chart.

    Change of Control

    With respect to the Seller/Servicer, a change in the Control, directly or indirectly, of the management or
    policies of a Seller/Servicer, whether through ownership or transfer of ownership interests, by contract, or
    otherwise. A person is presumed to have such power if the person:

    •   Is a director, general partner, or Senior Management of the Seller/Servicer

    •   Directly or indirectly has the right to vote 10 percent or more of a class of a voting security of the company
        or has the power to sell or direct the sale of 10 percent or more of a class of voting securities of the
        company

    •   In the case of a limited liability company, is a managing member of the limited liability company; or

    •   In the case of a partnership, has the right to receive upon dissolution or has contributed 10 percent or more
        of the capital of the partnership

    Claims Made Policy Form

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Coinsurance Clause

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy

    Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy is a tax lien financing program that is available to commercial,
    industrial and multifamily property owners to access affordable financing for qualifying energy efficiency and
    clean energy improvements to their properties.

    Common Equity

    See Section 9.9(b).

    Complete Borrower/Key Borrower Principal Due Diligence Package

    A Complete Borrower/Key Borrower Principal Due Diligence Package consists of:

    •   Form 1115, Borrower and Key Borrower Principal Certificate;

                                                                                            Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 6
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    •   Form 1116, Real Estate Schedule;

    •   Certified current financial statements for the Borrower and Key Borrower Principals;

    •   Credit report(s) for Guarantors that are individuals;

    •   Form 1112, Borrower and Key Borrower Principal Blanket Certification; and

    •   Liquidity verification documentation, if applicable

    The Complete Borrower/Key Borrower Principal Due Diligence Package is submitted as part of the
    underwriting package and/or prescreen package to Freddie Mac.

    Conditions to Conversion

    Conditions to Conversion is, collectively, each of the conditions precedent to Conversion set forth (i) in the
    Forward Commitment, (ii) in Section 17A.11 (for Forward Commitments under Chapter 17A), Section 19A.13
    (for Forward Commitments under Chapter 19A), Section 25A.7 and 25A.8 (for Forward Commitments under
    Chapter 25A) or Section 28A.14, Section 28A.15 and Section 28A.16 (for Forward Commitments under
    Chapter 28A), as applicable, and (iii) any other condition which may otherwise be required by Freddie Mac in
    connection with Conversion.

    Confidential Information

    See Section 2.8.

    Confirmation Sheet

    The Confirmation Sheet is the “Interest Rate Lock and Mortgage Terms Confirmation” or “Spread Lock and
    Mortgage Terms Confirmation” attached as an Exhibit to a Letter of Commitment, early rate lock application,
    Acceptance Letter or Index Lock Agreement. After an index locked Loan is Rate Locked, the Confirmation
    Sheet from the Index Lock becomes null and void and is replaced by the Confirmation Sheet that is attached to
    the Commitment, early rate lock application or Acceptance Letter. The Confirmation Sheet is sent after Rate
    Lock. For an early rate lock application, the Confirmation Sheet will be revised when Freddie Mac accepts the
    early rate lock application after final underwriting and issues the Acceptance Letter.

    Consent Request Tracker

    See Section 36.25.

    Construction Loan

    Required for a Forward Commitment, the Construction Loan is the construction lender’s loan to the Borrower.

    Construction Phase Financing Agreement

    For a Bond Credit Enhancement Forward Commitment or a Forward Commitment under Chapter 25A, the
    Construction Phase Financing Agreement is an agreement among Freddie Mac, the Seller/Servicer and the
    construction lender. It must be accepted by the Borrower.



                                                                                            Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 7
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Construction Phase Letter of Credit

    The Construction Phase Letter of Credit secures Freddie Mac

    • For a Cash Forward Commitment, when Freddie Mac advances funds to the construction lender during the
       construction period

    • For a Bond Credit Enhancement Forward Commitment, when Freddie Mac provides the credit
       enhancement or Liquidity support for the bonds during the construction period

    Continuing Care Retirement Community

    See Section 21.2.

    Control

    Control is the power to manage, control or direct the decisions of an entity.

    Conventional Seller/Servicer

    A Conventional Seller/Servicer is a Seller/Servicer that meets the net worth requirements in Section 3.3 and
    Freddie Mac’s other eligibility requirements and has been approved by Freddie Mac as an Optigo
    Conventional Lender. In the Guide, an Optigo Conventional Lender is also referred to as a Conventional
    Seller/Servicer.

    Conversion

    For a Forward Commitment under either Chapter 17A or 19A, the Conversion is the closing of the permanent
    Mortgage after construction has been completed and the Property has met the applicable Conversion criteria.

    For a Forward Commitment under Chapter 25A, the Conversion is the purchase of the TEL by the Seller from
    the construction lender after construction has been completed and the Property has met the applicable
    Conversion criteria.

    For a Moderate Rehabilitation (Mod Rehab) Mortgage, the Conversion is the time when the loan terms change
    from the Interim Phase loan terms to Permanent Phase loan terms.

    Conversion Underwriting Package

    The underwriting package prepared by the Seller in accordance with Section 1.31 of Exhibit 1, and submitted
    to initiate Conversion.

    Conviction or Convicted

    Conviction is any (a) judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any court of
    competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea; or (b) any other resolution that is the functional
    equivalent of a judgment of guilt of a criminal offense, including probation before judgment and deferred
    prosecution. This includes nolo contendere (no contest) pleas, Alford pleas, and pardons not resulting in an
    expungement of the conviction. A disposition without the participation of a court is the functional equivalent of
    a judgment only if it includes an admission of guilt. Previous convictions that have been expunged by the date
    that Form 1115, Borrower and Key Borrower Principal Certificate is completed will not be considered

                                                                                            Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 8
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Convictions.

    Cooperative

    A Cooperative, or co-op, is a form of ownership of multifamily housing in which a cooperative housing
    association or corporation owns the multifamily Property (land and improvements) and the dwelling units are
    subject to proprietary leases between the corporation and unit “owners”. The unit owners own stock in the
    association or corporation to evidence their “ownership” in their dwelling units. Blanket (underlying) first
    Mortgages on multifamily housing owned by Cooperatives are eligible for purchase subject to the requirements
    set forth in Section 9.5.

    Coupon Rate

    The Coupon Rate is the interest rate specified in the Note secured by the Security Instrument.

    Criminal Conviction

    A Criminal Conviction includes any (a) judgment or any other determination of guilt of a criminal offense by any
    court of competent jurisdiction, whether entered upon a verdict or plea; or (b) any other resolution that is the
    functional equivalent of a judgment of guilt of a criminal offense, including probation before judgment and
    deferred prosecution. A plea of nolo contendere (no contest) will also be considered a Criminal Conviction. A
    disposition without the participation of a court will be considered the functional equivalent of a judgment only if
    it includes an admission of guilt.

    Critical Repairs

    See Section 62.3(b).

    Crowdfunding

    Raising capital from marketing directed to the public at large (via the internet or otherwise) for investment in
    one specific property under the exemptions provided under Title III or Title IV of the Jumpstart Our Business
    Startups (JOBS) Act.

    Custodial Account

    A Custodial Account is an account established and maintained by a Servicer at an “eligible depository,” as that
    term is defined in Chapter 52, into which principal and interest payments or Reserves are deposited.

    Debt Coverage Ratio

    The Debt Coverage Ratio is the ratio of Net Operating Income from a multifamily Property to the annual debt
    service, as determined by Freddie Mac.

    Defeasance Period

    The Defeasance Period is defined in the Loan Documents and is generally the period of time specified in the
    Loan Documents that the Borrower is prohibited from prepaying the Mortgage and may only defease the
    Mortgage.



                                                                                            Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 9
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Deferred Maintenance

    Deferred Maintenance is the postponement of normal maintenance, which may result in Life Safety Hazards,
    advanced physical deterioration, lack of full operation or efficiency, or a decline in property value.

    Delegated TAH Mortgage

    A Mortgage originated under the Delegated Underwriting Model for Targeted Affordable Housing (TAH),
    described in the Freddie Mac Delegated Underwriting for Targeted Affordable Housing Guide (TAH Guide).

    Delinquency

    Delinquency occurs when all or part of the Borrower’s monthly installment of principal, interest and, where
    applicable, Reserves is unpaid after the Due Date.

    A Mortgage is considered delinquent when it is 30 days delinquent, as described in the table below:

          If the due date is                                        The Mortgage is 30 days delinquent
          The first day of the month                                When all or part of one or more payments remains unpaid as
                                                                    of close of business on the last Business Day of the month

          Not the first day of the month                            When all or part of one or more payments remains unpaid 30
          (from the second through the last                         or more actual calendar days as of close of business on the
          day of the month)                                         last Business Day of the month


    Delinquent

    See Delinquency.

    Delivery Assurance Fee

    For Cash Forward Commitments, the Delivery Assurance Fee is a fee specified in the Forward Commitment
    that may be payable in the form of cash, a letter of credit or a secured note.

    Delivery Assurance Mortgage

    For Cash Forward Commitments, the Delivery Assurance Mortgage is the mortgage that secures the Delivery
    Assurance Note provided to Freddie Mac in payment of the Delivery Assurance Fee.

    Delivery Assurance Note

    For Cash Forward Commitments, the Delivery Assurance Note is a secured note that the Borrower provides to
    Freddie Mac in payment of the Delivery Assurance Fee; it is secured by a mortgage on the Property.

    Delivery Date

    The Delivery Date is the date Freddie Mac receives all documentation required by the Purchase and Servicing
    Documents. Delivery to Freddie Mac occurs when Freddie Mac takes actual possession of all documentation
    required to be submitted. The posting of such documentation with the U.S. Postal Service or any other

                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 10
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    delivery service does not constitute delivery to Freddie Mac.

    Directing Certificateholder

    The holder (or its authorized representative) of the most subordinate class of certificates in a Freddie Mac-
    sponsored Securitization. The Directing Certificateholder has certain rights (e.g., consent, notice, consultation
    and fees) with respect to the servicing of Mortgages owned by such Securitization.

    Directing Party

    The party holding the rights of a Directing Certificateholder in a Freddie Mac-sponsored Securitization.

    Discovery Policy Form

    An insurance policy form that covers losses discovered during the policy period even though they may have
    occurred before the policy period.

    Document Management System

    A Multifamily Software Application used to receive, deliver, and store electronic versions of documents relating
    to Freddie Mac Multifamily Mortgages.

    Down Units

    Residential units that cannot be made rent-ready with routine maintenance and repairs.

    Due Date

    The Due Date is the date on which the Borrower’s monthly installment of principal, interest and, where
    applicable, Reserves is due as stated in the Note and other Loan Documents.

    Due Date of Last Paid Installment

    The Due Date Last Paid Installment is the Due Date of the last fully paid monthly installment of principal,
    interest, and Reserves (if any). It is not the date on which such payment was credited or the date of the next
    scheduled installment.

    Effective Gross Income

    Effective Gross Income is the maximum rental revenue the Property can generate based on: (a) (1) actual
    rents in occupied units; (2) achievable market rents in vacant units; (3) allowable commercial income; plus (4)
    all allowable sources of other income; less (b) vacancy, concessions and bad debt allowance. The above
    calculation is further refined for TAH transactions, subject to Freddie Mac’s sole discretion, to take into account
    any restricted rents affecting the Property, the maximum allowable low-income housing tax credit rents (less
    utility allowances) (for 4% or 9% LIHTC transactions), and/or the HAP contract rents.

    Electronic Delivery Package

    The Electronic Delivery Package is the set of documents comprising a portion of the Final Delivery Package
    which is delivered electronically via DMS. For identification of the documents comprising the Electronic

                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 11
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Delivery Package, refer to the appropriate Final Delivery Table of Contents available at
    mf.freddiemac.com/lenders/purchase/.

    Eligible Institution

    A depository institution or trust company insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the short term
    unsecured debt obligations or commercial paper of which must meet the minimum rating requirements in
    Section 52.2(a).

    Energy Certification

    Energy Certification is an energy certification and/or score of environmental energy savings given to the Utility
    Efficiency Improvements on the Property by applicable local, State or federal agencies or another nationally
    recognized building association.

    Energy Star® Score

    ENERGY STAR® Score is the measure of energy performance provided for the Property by Portfolio Manager.

    Environmental Superlien Law

    See Section 61.1(b).

    EPA 1-100 Water Score

    EPA 1-100 Water Score is a measure of water performance provided for the Property by Portfolio Manager®.

    Equity Conflict of Interest

    See Section 2.25.

    Escrow Functions

    The writing or issuance of the title commitment and Title Policy and related endorsements on behalf of the Title
    Insurance Underwriter, and handling and/or recording of deeds, deeds of trusts, mortgages, leases and other
    instruments required to close a Mortgage in accordance with the closing or escrow instruction letter.

    Exception(s)

    Any exceptions to the Seller/Servicer Representations and Warranties referenced in Section 5.13 of the Guide
    and found under the “Resources” section of the Legal Documents page at mf.freddiemac.com/lenders/legal.

    Exclusionary List

    The Exclusionary List is a confidential list compiled, maintained and distributed by Freddie Mac, containing
    names and other information concerning persons or entities that have been restricted or excluded from
    participating in transactions or doing business with Freddie Mac. The Exclusionary List is updated at least
    monthly by Freddie Mac.

    Seller/Servicers can access the Exclusionary List under “Quick Links” on the Originate and Underwrite and


                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 12
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Asset Management web pages.

    Exempt Inspector

    See Section 40.13(b).

    Expiration Date

    The Expiration Date is the date set forth in the Letter of Commitment by which the Seller must accept the Letter
    of Commitment and Rate Lock. The Expiration Date for an early rate lock application is or the expiration date
    of the Quote.

    Fee Inspector Company

    See Section 40.14.

    FHA Mortgage

    An FHA Mortgage is a Mortgage insured by the FHA.

    Final Delivery Instructions

    The Final Delivery Instructions are a detailed list of required Loan Documents and other items which,
    depending on the specific features of a Mortgage, may be required to be included with the Final Delivery
    Package. The Final Delivery Instructions are set forth in the following documents:

    •   For all non-TEL Mortgages, the document called “Final Delivery Instructions and Final Delivery Package
        Table of Contents”

    •   For TEL Mortgages, the applicable document referenced below:

        o   Final Delivery Instructions and Final Delivery Package Table of Contents – Unfunded Forward Tax-
            Exempt Loan

        o   Final Delivery Instructions and Final Delivery Package Table of Contents – Conversion of Unfunded
            Forward Tax-Exempt Loan

        o   Final Delivery Instructions and Final Delivery Package Table of Contents – Immediate Funding Tax-
            Exempt Loan

    Each of these documents are available at mf.freddiemac.com/lenders/purchase/.

    Final Delivery Package

    As further defined in Chapter 32, the Final Delivery Package is the complete set of the required Purchase and
    Servicing Documents set forth in Chapter 32 and in the Final Delivery Instructions, which set may be
    comprised of both hardcopies and electronic versions of such documents.




                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 13
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Financial Crimes

    Crimes to obtain personal or business advantage or that may result in conversion of property. Such crimes
    are generally characterized by fraud, deceit, concealment, or violation of trust and typically do not depend on
    the application of threat or physical force or violence. Examples include fraud, bribery, money laundering,
    sanctions violations, forgery, counterfeiting and terrorist activity financing.

    First Lien

    A First Lien is any lien that grants to the lienholder a claim against the Property that, under the law of the
    jurisdiction where the Property is located, is prior to the rights of all others, subject only to prior liens and
    encumbrances that Freddie Mac has expressly waived pursuant to Section 29.2.

    First-Time Sponsor

    See Section 9.2(d).

    Floating-Rate Mortgage

    A Floating-Rate Mortgage, also known as an adjustable rate mortgage or ARM, is a Mortgage for which the
    interest rate is adjusted at specified intervals for the entire Mortgage term. A Floating Rate Mortgage may be
    amortizing or interest-only. Floating-Rate Mortgages must have either a Freddie Mac internal interest rate cap
    (“internal interest rate cap”) or a third-party interest rate hedge.

    Foreign Guarantor

    An individual or entity who signs a Guaranty for the Mortgage is considered a Foreign Guarantor if they are
    any of the following:

    •   Not a United States entity

    •   Not a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States

    •   A United States citizen or lawful permanent resident of the United States who does not reside in the United
        States

    The requirements for a Foreign Guarantor are set forth in Section 9.11.

    Forward Commitment

    Forward Commitment has the meaning provided in Section 17A.1 for Conventional Mortgage under a Forward
    Commitment, and Section 19A.1 for TAH Cash Mortgage under a Forward Commitment, as supplemented by
    Chapter 25A for TEL and Chapter 28A for Bond Credit Enhancement.

    Forward Commitment Maturity Date

    The Forward Commitment Maturity Date is the date by which Conversion must occur unless extended
    pursuant to an extension approval letter.




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 14
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Forward Commitment Property Inspection

    A property inspection that is required prior to commitment issuance under a Funded Forward Commitment or
    for an Unfunded Forward Commitment when requested by Freddie Mac. The requirements are set forth in
    Section 8.16. At the time of Conversion, a complete property inspection is required.

    Freddie Mac Access Manager

    A Multifamily Software Application that enables Seller/Servicers who have registered and received Freddie
    Mac’s authorization, to create, manage, and provision their users’ access to certain servicing tools and
    applications.

    Freddie Mac Approved Third Party Applications

    Third party systems or software applications approved by Freddie Mac as provided in Chapter 2.

    Freddie Mac Funding Date

    The Freddie Mac Funding Date is:

    •   The date on which Freddie Mac disburses payment to the warehouse lender or the Seller for a Mortgage
        purchased by Freddie Mac under a cash program or product, or

    •   The settlement date for Mortgages purchased by Freddie Mac under a Multifamily Structured Transaction,
        or

    •   Execution by Freddie Mac of a Credit Enhancement Agreement in a bond credit enhancement transaction.

    Freddie Mac Matters

    See Section 7.1.

    Freddie Mac Matters Contractor

    See Section 7.1.

    Freddie Mac Matters Employee

    See Section 7.1

    Freddie Mac Preservation

    Freddie Mac Preservation is defined as Properties for which rent restrictions are in place through the Loan
    Agreement (e.g., Borrower-elected rent restrictions) or third-party, non-governmental rent restrictions. Freddie
    Mac Preservation rent restrictions may vary by product. TAH Mortgage products eligible for Freddie Mac
    Preservation include Non-LIHTC Preservation Rehabilitation and Affordable Forward Commitments (see
    Sections 19.2 and 19A.2 and the TAH term sheets referenced therein). Workforce Housing Preservation is a
    Conventional Mortgage product eligible for Freddie Mac Preservation (see Section 17.6).




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 15
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Freddie Mac Underwriting Value

    The market value of a Property for purposes of Freddie Mac’s underwriting and purchase of Mortgages, and
    for calculation of Loan-to-Value (LTV) Ratios in connection therewith, is the lower of appraised value as
    determined by a third-party appraiser or the value determined by Freddie Mac.

    FreddieMac.com

    FreddieMac.com is Freddie Mac’s Internet home page. FreddieMac.com includes information about Freddie
    Mac’s programs and products and makes multifamily Loan Documents and other Mortgage origination
    information available to Seller/Servicers at mf.freddiemac.com.

    Funded Forward Commitment

    See Sections 19A.1(b) and 28A.2.

    Funding Functions

    The actions to:

    •   Prepare the final settlement statement(s) for closing

    •   Collect premiums, escrows, security deposits, sale and/or loan proceeds, and/or other funds in connection
        with the closing of the Mortgage and, if applicable, the acquisition of the Property

    •   Disburse all funds in accordance with the settlement statement(s) and the closing or escrow instruction
        letter

    •   Maintain the receipts and disbursements ledger

    Gold PC

    A Gold PC is a Participation Certificate (PC) in which the payments by Borrowers on the Gold PC Securitized
    Mortgages are passed through, with a payment delay of 45 days, to the holders of the Gold PCs.

    Gold PC Securitized Mortgages

    Gold PC Securitized Mortgages are Mortgages that are purchased under the Multifamily Negotiated
    Transactions Program or the Multifamily PC OneSM Program and are pooled in Gold PCs.

    Governmental Entity

    A Governmental Entity is an entity that is under Control of, under ownership of, is authorized by, or is itself a
    city, county, State, commonwealth, or federal government. With respect to subordinate debt, Freddie Mac
    considers a Governmental Entity to be an entity that provides third-party financing with the goal of expanding,
    preserving, maintaining, or otherwise promoting affordable multifamily housing.




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 16
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Green Assessment®

    Green Assessment® is a report detailing proposed property-level improvements to promote utility consumption
    efficiency at the Property. It uses the ASHRAE Level 1 standard and otherwise meets the requirements set
    forth in Chapter 65. The report describes projected savings in terms of utility consumption and dollars saved
    per improvement item.

    Green Consultant

    Green Consultant is a certified environmental design/inspection or engineering firm that meets the
    requirements set forth in Chapter 65.

    Green Improvements

    Green Improvements are the energy and water conservation measures selected by the Borrower from the list
    of qualifying conservation measures identified in a Green Report. These selected conservation measures are
    identified as Green Improvements in the Green Improvement Rider to the Loan Documents.

    Green Up®

    Green Up® is a loan option available when a Borrower commits to making Green Improvements identified in a
    Green Assessment®.

    Ground Lease

    See Section 30.1.

    Ground Lease Mortgage

    See Section 30.1.

    Ground Lessee

    See Section 30.1.

    Ground Lessor

    See Section 30.2.

    Guarantor

    Any person or entity that is liable under the Guaranty. (See also Foreign Guarantor)

    Guide

    The Guide is the official version of the Multifamily Seller/Servicer Guide, including the exhibits and related
    supplements, Bulletins and Industry Letters.




                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 17
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Hardcopy Delivery Package

    The Hardcopy Delivery Package is the set of documents comprising a portion of the Final Delivery Package
    which must be delivered in their original hardcopy form. For identification of the documents comprising the
    Hardcopy Delivery Package, refer to the appropriate Final Delivery Table of Contents available at
    mf.freddiemac.com/lenders/purchase/.

    Hard Subordinate Debt

    See Section 19.2(f).

    Home Mortgage

    A Home Mortgage is a Mortgage secured by a First Lien on real estate on which there is located a structure
    designed principally for residential use by one to four families.

    Imminent Life Safety Hazard

    An Imminent Life Safety Hazard is a hazard that is about to cause harm. Imminent Life Safety Hazards are of
    the highest concern as they as they represent an immediate risk to any tenant that encounters such a hazard.
    Exposed live electrical wires and balconies with inadequate guard rails are among the types of conditions that
    represent Imminent Life Safety Hazards.

    Imminent Life Safety Hazards are identified during the annual physical inspection of a Property post-purchase.
    There is no comprehensive list of Imminent Life Safety Hazards and the inspector must exercise judgment to
    determine the Hazard category.

    See also Life Safety Hazard.

    Income and Expense Statement

    The Income and Expense Statement is the actual or pro forma statement of income and expense items for a
    person, an entity, or a Property during a specified period of time.

    Increased Mortgage Amount

    For the purposes of the early rate lock delivery option and the early rate lock application, see Section 27.20.

    Increased Scrutiny for Moisture or Mold Issues

    Increased Scrutiny for Moisture or Mold Issues is a specific inspection protocol, set forth in Section 8.3(b),
    which is used to evaluate the risk of moisture or Mold issues in certain Properties.

    Independent Director/Manager

    Independent Director/Manager is an individual who is not affiliated with the Borrower, any SPE Equity Owner,
    Guarantor or any other Borrower Principal or any parties associated or affiliated with the foregoing parties.
    See the Loan Documents for a more complete definition.




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 18
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Independent Living Property

    See Section 21.2.

    Index Lock

    See Section 27.1(b).

    Index Lock Agreement

    See Section 27.1(b).

    Industry Trained Inspector

    See Section 40.13(b).

    Insurable Value

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Insurance Compliance Tool

    A Multifamily Software Application for Sellers to submit documentation related to Borrower’s insurance
    compliance.

    Joint Loss Agreement

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Key Borrower Principal

    Key Borrower Principal is:

    •   Any Guarantor, regardless of the amount of ownership interest in the Borrower and even if not in the
        organizational structure of the Borrower

    •   Seniors Housing Operator

    •   Any operator of the Property that is a Master Tenant under a master lease structure (e.g., a Delaware
        Statutory Trust)

    •   Any person or entity that has Ultimate Control (direct or indirect) of the Borrower, Borrower-affiliated
        Seniors Housing Operator, or Borrower-affiliated Master Tenant

    •   Any Pre-Approved Transferee

    •   Any non-Controlling person or entity that meets both of the following conditions, including LIHTC Investors:

        o   Has aggregate ownership (direct or indirect) of 50% or more of the Borrower, Borrower-affiliated
            Seniors Housing Operator, or Borrower-affiliated Master Tenant

                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 19
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


        o   Is not owned by any other person or entity that also has aggregate ownership (direct or indirect) of 50%
            or more of the Borrower, Borrower-affiliated Seniors Housing Operator, or Borrower-affiliated Master
            Tenant

            •    If a trust meets the two conditions above, the following parties are also considered Key Borrower
                 Principals:

                 o    The settlor (grantor) of a living or revocable trust

                 o    The beneficiary of an irrevocable trust if the beneficiary has aggregate ownership (direct or
                      indirect) of 50% or more of the Borrower, Borrower-affiliated Seniors Housing, Operator, or
                      Borrower-affiliated Master Tenant

    •   Any individual or entity that does not meet the criteria set forth above but who is determined by Freddie
        Mac to be a Key Borrower Principal. These may include individuals or entities defined as a Required
        Equity Owner in the Loan Agreement.

    Except for a LIHTC Investor that is a U.S. publicly traded entity a Key Borrower Principal must submit a
    Complete Borrower/Key Borrower Principal Due Diligence Package.

    Leasehold Interest

    See Section 30.1.

    Legal Issues Analysis

    See Sections 6.4 and 29.2.

    Letter of Commitment

    A Letter of Commitment or Commitment is the written indication that Freddie Mac has made an offer to the
    Seller to purchase a Mortgage. The Letter of Commitment and any amendments set forth the terms and
    conditions of the purchase transaction. For an early rate-lock delivery, a counter-signed early rate-lock
    application, with all modification and acceptance letters, takes the place of the Letter of Commitment. Letters
    of Commitment also include Forward Commitments.

    Life Safety Hazard

    Life Safety Hazards consist of conditions that increase the possibility of personal injury or death. Traditionally,
    these hazards are associated with inadequate protections and often result from noncompliance with code
    requirements.

    See also the definitions of Imminent Life Safety Hazard and Potential Life Safety Hazard, which apply to the
    post-purchase annual inspection of a Property. There is no comprehensive list of Imminent or Potential
    Hazards and the inspector must exercise judgment to determine the Hazard category.




                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 20
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    LIHTC Investor

    In a LIHTC transaction, each person or entity that has aggregate ownership (direct or indirect) of 50% or more
    of the Borrower’s limited partner. The LIHTC Investor expects to receive the benefit of the LIHTC and does
    not Control the Borrower.

    LIHTC Syndicator

    In a LIHTC transaction where the LIHTC investment is made through a syndicated LIHTC fund, the entity with
    Ultimate Control of the general partner of the LIHTC fund. In that capacity, the LIHTC Syndicator, for the
    benefit of the LIHTC fund and the LIHTC Investor(s), provides acquisition, underwriting, portfolio management,
    asset management and investor reporting services.

    Limited Multifamily Experience Sponsor

    See Section 9.2(d).

    Liquid Assets

    For the purposes of Seller/Servicer financial eligibility, see Section 3.3(a).

    Otherwise, see Liquidity.

    Liquidity

    Cash, cash equivalents, Treasury bills, money market investments or certificates of deposit with maturities of
    one year or less, and marketable securities (such as stocks and bonds). Restricted assets, pledged accounts,
    and stocks or bonds for a company or municipality in default or bankruptcy must be excluded. All Liquidity
    must be measured in US dollars.

    Loan Agreement

    The Loan Agreement is the Multifamily Loan and Security Agreement. The Loan Agreement sets forth the
    terms of the Mortgage, including the representations and covenants of the Borrower, the events of default, the
    securitization terms and the lender’s remedies. There is also a specially designated Loan Agreement for use
    with Seniors Housing Mortgages.

    Loan Documents

    Loan Documents are the Freddie Mac Multifamily Loan Documents, the forms of which are posted at
    mf.freddiemac.com/lenders/legal/. The Loan Documents include the following documents, together with any
    modifications and Riders to the documents:

    •   Note

    •   Loan Agreement

    •   Security Instrument

    •   Guaranty

                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 21
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    •   Omnibus Assignment

    •   All other documents used in connection with the origination or Servicing of Mortgages under Freddie Mac’s
        programs and products.

    The Legal Documents page of mf.freddiemac.com includes a list of current Loan Documents. The revision
    date is indicated for each Loan Document.

    Loan-to-Value Ratio

    The Loan-to-Value Ratio is the relationship between the principal amount of the Mortgage and the value of the
    Property, expressed as a percentage of the value, as determined by Freddie Mac.

    Localized Peril or Regional Peril

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Long Term Rental Assistance Contact

    See Section 23.3(a).

    Malicious Code

    See Section 2.26(c).

    Mandatory Delivery Date

    The Mandatory Delivery Date is the delivery date identified in the Letter of Commitment or early rate-lock
    application. The Seller must deliver the Final Delivery Package to Freddie Mac by noon Eastern time on the
    Mandatory Delivery Date.

    Mandatory Funding Date

    Unless otherwise agreed upon, the Mandatory Funding Date is the date which is 15 days after the Mandatory
    Delivery Date; provided, however, that if such day is not a Business Day, then the Mandatory Funding Date
    will be the Business Day immediately preceding such date.

    Manufactured Housing Community Product

    A program under which Freddie Mac Multifamily will purchase Mortgages secured by Manufactured Housing
    Communities, as described in Chapter 22.

    Manufactured Housing Resident-Owned Community

    See Section 22.1(b).

    Market Overhang

    See Section 19.2(e) and Section 23.3.



                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 22
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Master Forward Financing Agreement

    The Master Forward Financing Agreement documents the general terms and conditions governing all Forward
    Commitments with a particular construction lender.

    Master Insurance Policy

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Master Tenant

    A Master Tenant is the tenant that operates the Property under a master lease. A master lease structure is
    usually used in a Delaware Statutory Trust loan.

    Material Modification

    For the purposes of the early rate lock delivery option and the early rate lock application, a “Material
    Modification” is as defined in Chapter 27.

    Material Vendor

    With respect to one or more Mortgages owned by Freddie Mac (i.e., from Freddie Mac’s purchase until
    securitization or other disposition of such Mortgage(s)), a vendor engaged by the Servicer while Servicing such
    Mortgage or Mortgages on behalf of Freddie Mac that has the potential to create information security risk or
    compliance risk for Freddie Mac.

    Refer to the Material Vendors Material Vendors web page for more details and examples of Material Vendors.

    MHC Tenant Protections

    See Section 22.1(b).

    MHC Tenant Protections Notification

    See Section 22.2(p).

    Minimum Consumption Savings Threshold

    See Section 24.3(a).

    Minimum Occupancy

    The minimum number of units at the Property that must have current leases that comply with the provisions of
    the Loan Agreement in order for a Borrower to undertake or continue certain Property Improvement
    Alterations. The Minimum Occupancy is expressed as a percentage in the Loan Agreement.

    Minimum Origination Fee

    The Minimum Origination Fee is the minimum fee the Seller/Servicer must charge in connection with the
    origination of the Mortgage. The Minimum Origination Fee requirements are set forth in Section 17.1(f).


                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 23
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Moderate Rehabilitation Mortgage

    See Section 17.4.

    Modification Letter

    The Modification Letter is used by Freddie Mac to propose material modifications to an early rate lock
    application.

    Moisture Management Plan

    An Moisture Management Plan is a plan provided by the Borrower to manage moisture or Mold issues at the
    Property in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 8.3(a). If a Moisture Management Plan is
    required, the Moisture Management Plan must be maintained at the Property and be made available for
    verification at annual inspections. Additional information on the requirements for a Moisture Management Plan
    is in the Moisture Management Plan Handbook.

    Mold

    Mold is a naturally occurring growth that is frequently dark in color with a musty odor. Mold feeds on organic
    material, and the growth of Mold is typically associated with damp or moist conditions. Mold is also referred to
    as fungus or mildew.

    Mortgage

    A Mortgage is a loan meeting the requirements of Section 1.2 and secured by a lien on real estate held in fee
    simple or on an acceptable leasehold estate. A Mortgage may also be: (i) a bond credit enhancement meeting
    the requirements of Chapter 28 or Chapter 28A, (ii) the mortgage loan securing a TEL meeting the
    requirements of Chapter 25 or Chapter 25A, or (iii) a mortgage loan, or a tax-exempt bond or loan secured by
    a mortgage loan, not meeting the requirements of Section 1.2, Chapter 28, Chapter 28A, Chapter 25, or
    Chapter 25A that has been: (a) deposited in a securitization sponsored by Freddie Mac or (b) or credit
    enhanced by Freddie Mac. When used alone in the Guide, and unless the context indicates otherwise, the
    term “Mortgage” is a multifamily Mortgage secured by a property containing five or more dwelling units.

    The term "Mortgage" includes the Security Instrument (mortgage, deed of trust, or deed to secure debt), the
    Note, the evidence of title, and all other Loan Documents that evidence the Mortgage and includes, for bond
    credit enhancement transactions, the bond mortgage note, the bond mortgage, the reimbursement mortgage
    and the reimbursement agreement.

    Mortgage Documents

    See Loan Documents.

    Mortgage File

    The paper and electronic file or files required to be created and maintained for each Mortgage by the
    Seller/Servicer in accordance with Chapter 34, and any other applicable sections of the Guide.




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 24
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Mortgage Financial Terms

    The Mortgage Financial Terms are the maximum Mortgage amount, Freddie Mac net spread, gross spread,
    term, amortization period (if applicable), interest only period (if applicable), prepayment terms, yield
    maintenance period (if applicable), lock out period (if applicable), treasury floor (if applicable), and any other
    relevant Mortgage financial terms as determined by Freddie Mac.

    Mortgages Purchased in Part

    Mortgages Purchased in Part are Mortgages in which Freddie Mac has purchased or retained a participation
    interest.

    Mortgages Purchased in Whole

    Mortgages Purchased in Whole have been purchased in their entirety by Freddie Mac.

    Multifamily Document Management System

    See Document Management System.

    Multifamily Eligibility System

    A Multifamily Software Application for Seller/Servicers to submit monthly, quarterly and annual certifications,
    and update vendor inventory.

    Multifamily Loan Documents

    See Loan Documents.

    Multifamily Securities Investor Access

    A Multifamily Software Application that provides investors and analysts with information related to Freddie Mac
    Multifamily K-Deals®, ML-DealsSM, Q-DealsSM, SB-Deals®, and Multi PC® mortgage-backed securities and their
    underlying collateral.

    Multifamily Software Applications

    The software applications that Freddie Mac provides to the Seller/Servicer in connection with the sale and the
    servicing of multifamily Mortgages. The Multifamily Software Applications include those listed in Section
    2.12(a).

    National Flood Insurance Program

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Net Operating Income

    Net Operating Income is the income from a property's operations available for repayment of debt and return on
    equity to the owner after deducting economic vacancy and all expenses (exclusive of debt service).



                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 25
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Nondelivery

    A Nondelivery is any action or failure to act that prevents or will prevent the Seller from meeting the terms of a
    Commitment after acceptance or an early rate lock application after Rate Lock.

    Nonprofit Entity

    A Nonprofit Entity is an entity that has been conferred tax-exempt status by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
    For Freddie Mac’s purposes, a Nonprofit Entity must have a mission of owning, developing, operating,
    preserving, managing, or otherwise promoting affordable multifamily housing.

    Non-LIHTC Property

    A Property that has affordability requirements outside of a LIHTC regulatory agreement and meets the
    requirements set forth in the term sheets available at mf.freddiemac.com for Affordable Forward Commitments,
    Preservation Rehabilitation Financing for Non-LIHTC Properties or Non-LIHTC Bridge, as the context may
    require.

    Non-Scope Issues

    See Section 61.2(b).

    Non-U.S. Equity Holder

    A Non-U.S. Equity Holder is any non-U.S. person or entity with a collective equity interest (whether direct or
    indirect) in Borrower equal to or exceeding 10 percent. A Non-U.S. Equity Holder is subject to all Office of
    Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Laws compliance-related obligations set
    forth in this Guide including those identified in Chapters 2, 9, 41, 43, and 44.

    A Non-U.S. Equity Holder that is a Key Borrower Principal is required to submit a Complete Borrower/Key
    Borrower Principal Due Diligence Package.

    A Non-U.S. Equity Holder with a 25 percent or greater interest in the Borrower will be considered a Borrower
    Principal.

    All Non-U.S. Equity Holders must be named on the Organizational Chart.

    Note

    A Note is the instrument evidencing the indebtedness secured by a Security Instrument, and includes, for bond
    credit enhancement transactions, the reimbursement agreement evidencing the obligations secured by the
    reimbursement mortgage and the bond mortgage note evidencing the obligations secured by the bond
    mortgage.

    Occurrence-based Policy Form

    See Section 31.1(c).




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 26
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    OFAC Lists

    The OFAC Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List and the OFAC Consolidated Sanctions
    List.

    Operator

    An Operator (sometimes referred to as the “Lessee”) is an entity that operates the Property under a master
    operating lease. Operating leases are frequently used in the Seniors Housing industry. An Operator may be
    affiliated with the Borrower or may be an unrelated third-party Operator.

    Opinion Analysis

    See Section 29.5(c).

    Optigo Lender

    An Optigo Lender is a lender that meets Freddie Mac's eligibility requirements, including the net worth
    requirements in Section 3.3, and has been approved by Freddie Mac to sell multifamily Mortgages to Freddie
    Mac and to service those Mortgages. Optigo Lenders may be approved as one or more of the following
    designations:

    •   Optigo Conventional Lender

    •   Optigo TAH Lender

    •   Optigo Seniors Housing Lender

    See Section 2.10 and Chapter 3 for more information concerning Optigo Lenders.

    In the Guide, an Optigo Lender is referred to as a Seller/Servicer, Seller or Servicer.

    Organizational Chart

    An Organizational Chart for the Borrower, Guarantor not in the Borrower’s organizational structure, Master
    Tenant (if applicable) or Operator (if applicable) must include the elements set forth in the Guidance –
    Organizational Charts that can be found on mf.freddiemac.com.

    Origination and Underwriting System

    A Multifamily Software Application that automates the workflow involved in processing loan applications from
    receipt of the Loan Submission Template through the underwriting process.

    Origination Date

    The Origination Date is the date of the Note.

    Participation Certificate

    A Participation Certificate represents an undivided interest in specified Mortgages purchased by Freddie Mac
    from a single Seller, either for cash or in exchange for Participation Certificates, and placed in a discrete pool
                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 27
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    bearing a unique Participation Certificate pool number. Participation Certificates are offered only in book-entry
    form.

    Pledged Mortgage

    See Section 33.1.

    Portfolio Manager®

    Portfolio Manager® is an online tool used to measure and track energy and water consumption at the Property.
    Portfolio Manager is located on the ENERGY STAR® website of the EPA.

    Potential Life Safety Hazard

    A Potential Life Safety Hazard is a hazard with a lower capacity to cause harm or consists of a condition that
    could become harmful. A Potential Life Safety Hazard is also of concern but does not represent the same
    immediacy of risk for tenants as an Imminent Life Safety Hazard. Potential Life Safety Hazards include
    conditions that will be recognized by most residents and avoided, including trip hazards or conditions that
    represent a risk only in special circumstances, such as an out-of-date fire extinguisher.

    Potential Life Safety Hazards are identified during the annual physical inspection of a Property post-purchase.
    There is no comprehensive list of Potential Life Safety Hazards and the inspector must exercise judgment to
    determine the Hazard category.

    See also Life Safety Hazard.

    PR-90 Repairs

    See Section 62.3(b).

    Pre-Approved Transferee

    Any person or entity that is pre-approved by lender to assume Ultimate Control (direct or indirect) of Borrower,
    Borrower-affiliated Seniors Housing Operator, or Borrower-affiliated Master Tenant.

    Preferred Equity

    See Section 9.9(b).

    Preferred Equity Return

    See Section 9.9(b).

    Preliminary legal issues memorandum

    See Section 6.4.

    Preservation Rehabilitation

    See Section 19.2(e).

                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 28
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Principal

    A Principal, for purposes of Freddie Mac's policy concerning the exclusion of certain persons from participating
    in transactions or doing business with Freddie Mac, may be:

    •   A Seller/Servicer, or

    •   A person with substantial management or supervisory responsibilities within a Seller/Servicer’s
        organization, or

    •   A person with critical influence on or substantive Control over any material aspect of a Mortgage purchase
        or Servicing transaction or any function related to such a transaction

    There are three categories of principals:

    •   Seller/Servicers

    •   Officers, directors, owners, partners, key employees or other persons within a Seller/Servicer’s
        organization who have substantial management or supervisory responsibilities. Suspended or excluded
        persons within this category are presumed to have critical influence on or substantive Control over all the
        organization's Mortgage purchase or Servicing transactions.

    •   Principals, consisting of any other person (whether an individual or an entity) who has a critical influence on
        or substantive Control over any material aspect of a Mortgage purchase transaction or a Servicing
        transaction or any function related to such a transaction. Such a Principal may be an employee of a
        Seller/Servicer, a third-party provider of services to a Seller/Servicer or an employee of a third-party
        provider of services. Persons who have a critical influence on or substantive Control over Mortgage
        purchase transactions or Servicing transactions or related functions include loan officers, underwriters,
        appraisers, inspectors, real estate agents and real estate brokers.

    Priority Repairs

    See Section 62.3(b).

    Private Entity

    A Private Entity is an entity such as a partnership, limited liability company, private real estate fund, LIHTC
    fund or private REIT whose shares are not traded on a public exchange. A Private Entity can Control who
    purchases the ownership interests in such entity.

    Private Investment Fund

    A U.S. private company that invests capital from different investors in various assets, including direct and
    indirect equity interests in real estate. To qualify as a Private Investment Fund, the entity must have each of
    the following:

    •   A minimum of $50,000,000 in capital commitments

    •   Liquid assets of at least $750,000


                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 29
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    •   A minimum net worth of $5,000,000

    •   A management team with all of the following:

        1. At least 10 years of collective experience managing multifamily properties,

        2. At least 10 multifamily properties under management, either in the Private Investment Fund individually,
           or in the Private Investment Fund and other affiliated private investment funds, collectively

        3. At least $100,000,000 in multifamily properties under management, either in the Private Investment
           Fund individually, or in the Private Investment Fund and other affiliated private investment funds,
           collectively

    Private Transfer Fee

    A Private Transfer Fee is any fee, charge or payment imposed by a Private Transfer Fee Covenant due in
    connection with a transfer of title to a Property. A Private Transfer Fee is payable each time a Property is
    transferred for a set period of time or indefinitely. The Private Transfer Fee can be a fixed amount or a
    percentage of the Property’s sale price. A Private Transfer Fee does not include:

    •   A charge payable to the federal, State or local government

    •   A charge that defrays the actual cost of the transfer of the Property, such as transfer of membership in a
        covered association such as a homeowners’ association, condominium association, cooperative
        association or a federally tax-exempt 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4) organization

    •   A charge payable to a covered association such as a homeowners’ association, condominium association,
        cooperative association or a federally tax-exempt 501(c)(3) and 501(c)(4) organization that is used
        exclusively to provide a direct benefit to the Property

    Private Transfer Fee Covenant

    A Private Transfer Fee Covenant is any covenant, restriction or other similar document that (i) purports to run
    with the land or to bind current and future owners whether or not such covenant is recorded and (ii) imposes a
    Private Transfer Fee upon transfer of all or part of the Property, as defined in 12 C.F.R. Part 1228. A Private
    Transfer Fee Covenant can be attached to a Property by the original developer or another third party.

    Prohibited Substances

    Prohibited Substances are any drugs or controlled substances whose use, manufacture, distribution or
    possession are prohibited by any law, whether federal, state or local law.

    Project Loan

    For a Cash Funded Forward Commitment, the Project Loan is Freddie Mac’s loan to the construction lender.

    Property

    The Property is the land, improvements and fixtures that are, or will be, subject to the lien of a Mortgage.


                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 30
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Property Improvement Alterations

    Alterations and additions to the improvements existing at or upon the Property, as more fully defined in the
    Loan Agreement. Repairs, capital replacements, restoration and other work required to be performed at the
    Property pursuant to the terms of the Loan Documents are not considered to be Property Improvement
    Alterations.

    Property Improvement Alterations Notice

    A notice to the lender from the Borrower pursuant to the terms of the Loan Agreement that the Borrower
    intends to begin the Property Improvement Alterations specified in the Property Improvement Alterations
    Notice.

    Property Reporting System

    See Section 40.2.

    Public Company

    A company whose shares are traded on a United States public exchange or an over-the-counter exchange
    with no control over who purchases its shares after the initial public offering, or a pension fund that is
    controlled by a United States municipal, county, state, or federal government unit or any subsidiary thereof.

    Public Records Searches

    See Section 2.28.

    Purchase and Servicing Documents

    The Purchase and Servicing Documents applicable to a Mortgage are the following:

    1. The Purchase Contract, including all Exhibits

    2. The separate Servicing Agreement, if any

    3. The official version of the Guide

    4. Any agreement pursuant to which a Seller or affiliate of a Seller provides a guaranty or any form of credit
       enhancement in connection with the sale of Mortgages to Freddie Mac

    5. Additionally, for Delegated TAH Mortgages, the Seller/Servicer’s Delegated TAH Master Agreement and
       the TAH Guide in effect at the time of underwriting

    6. Any Servicing transaction approval issued by Freddie Mac to a Servicer

    The Guide and all of its terms are incorporated by reference into, and constitute part of, each Purchase
    Contract. A Seller must sell Mortgages in accordance with the terms of each Purchase Contract entered into
    between the Seller and Freddie Mac.

    A Seller/Servicer must service each Mortgage that the Seller/Servicer has sold to Freddie Mac and has agreed
    to service for Freddie Mac in accordance with the standards set forth in the Guide (including amendments to
                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 31
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Servicing provisions of the Guide that Freddie Mac has made since Freddie Mac purchased the Mortgage) and
    any applicable Purchase Contract. All of a Seller/Servicer's obligations to service Mortgages for Freddie Mac
    will be considered to constitute, and will be performed pursuant to, a unitary, indivisible master Servicing
    contract, and the Servicing obligations assumed under any Purchase Contract will be deemed to be merged
    into, and will be performed under, the same unitary, indivisible master Servicing contract. The Seller/Servicer
    agrees that any failure to service any Mortgage in accordance with the terms of the unitary, indivisible master
    Servicing contract, or any breach of any of the Seller/Servicer's obligations under any aspect of the unitary,
    indivisible master Servicing contract, will be deemed to constitute a breach of the entire contract and will entitle
    Freddie Mac to terminate the contract.

    If a Servicer who services Mortgages for Freddie Mac is not also the Seller of the Mortgages to Freddie Mac,
    the Servicer must agree to service Mortgages for Freddie Mac by separate agreement, which incorporates the
    Guide and any applicable Purchase Contract by reference. In such case, the separate agreement shall be
    deemed to be one of the "Purchase and Servicing Documents," which constitute the unitary, indivisible master
    Servicing contract.

    Purchase Contract

    The Purchase Contract is an agreement between the Seller and Freddie Mac covering the purchase of a
    specific Mortgage or Mortgages, the Seller's obligation to deliver such Mortgages on a mandatory basis
    (unless otherwise noted in the Letter of Commitment or early rate-lock application), the delivery period and the
    Servicing after Freddie Mac's purchase of the Mortgage. The Purchase Contract may be a:

    1. Purchase agreement

    2. Letter of Commitment (as it may be amended) fully accepted by the Seller

    3. Early rate-lock application (as modified or adjusted) fully accepted by Freddie Mac

    4. Other offer by Freddie Mac to purchase, fully accepted by the Seller

    5. Other offer by Seller to sell, fully accepted by Freddie Mac

    Purchase Contract Date of Acceptance

    The Purchase Contract Date of Acceptance is the date the Seller accepts Freddie Mac's offer as stated in a
    Purchase Contract.

    Quote

    A Quote is Freddie Mac's non-binding statement of proposed Mortgage Financial Terms. A Quote does not
    require the Seller to submit a full underwriting package, nor does it bind Freddie Mac to purchase a Mortgage.

    Rapid Growth Sponsor

    See Section 9.2(d).




                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 32
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Rate Lock

    Rate Lock is the procedure in which Freddie Mac agrees to hold the yield rate on the applicable U.S. Treasury
    index, net spread to Freddie Mac and Servicing Spread for a fixed rate Mortgage (Interest Rate Lock) and to
    hold the net spread to Freddie Mac and Servicing Spread for a Floating-Rate Mortgage (Spread Rate Lock).

    Rate Lock Call

    The Seller must call the person whose name is set forth in the Letter of Commitment or early rate lock
    application to Rate Lock and confirm all of the other terms of the Mortgage, including the term, amortization
    period and prepayment period. Even though the interest rate for a Floating-Rate Mortgage cannot be Rate
    Locked, the Seller must complete a Rate Lock Call in order to confirm all of the terms of the Mortgage.

    Rate Reset

    A Rate Reset Mortgage is a Mortgage with a five-year term, during which there is an option to extend the term
    of the Mortgage for an additional five years at a reset interest rate.

    Rating Agencies

    Rating Agencies are Fitch, Inc.; Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.; Dominion Bond Rating Service (DBRS);
    Realpoint LLC; or Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, a division of the McGraw Hill Companies, Inc., or any
    successor entity of the foregoing, or any other nationally recognized statistical rating organization.

    Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit (REMIC)

    As defined in Section 860D of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor thereto).

    Real Estate Owned

    Real Estate Owned is property acquired through foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.

    Redemption Date

    See Section 9.9(c).

    Regulatory Agreement

    See Section 23.3.

    Rejection; Reject

    A Rejection is Freddie Mac’s determination that it will not accept the early rate lock application submitted by
    the Seller.

    Rental Assistance Contract

    See Section 23.3.




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 33
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Repair Reserve

    A Repair Reserve is a Reserve established to hold funds allocated for the completion of repairs, rehabilitation
    or incomplete items of construction. The Repair Reserve can be established by a Repair Escrow Agreement,
    a Repair and Escrow Agreement or by a Rider to the Loan Agreement that establishes a Repair Reserve.

    Replacement Reserve

    A Replacement Reserve (also referred to as a Replacement Reserve Fund or Replacement Reserve Escrow)
    is a Reserve established to hold funds allocated for the replacement of capital items. A Replacement Reserve
    can be established by a Replacement Reserve Agreement or by a Rider to the Loan Agreement establishing a
    Replacement Reserve.

    Required Net Yield

    The Required Net Yield is the amount of interest Freddie Mac receives from each Mortgage it purchases.

    Reserve

    Reserve is all funds, other than principal and interest, collected to cover expenses to be paid under the
    Mortgage, including hazard insurance premiums and taxes, special assessments, ground rents, water and
    sewer charges, any other charges that are or may become first liens on the Property, payments for fees for a
    subsequent third-party interest rate cap agreement, and any other escrow or reserve established under the
    terms of the Mortgage or the Loan Documents.

    Restricted Non-Residential Use

    A Restricted Non-Residential Use is any use or operation of the leased premises that may adversely impact (i)
    the health and safety of the tenants or other individuals at the Mortgaged Property, or (ii) the value, occupancy
    or rents of the Mortgaged Property, all as determined by Lender in Lender’s discretion. Restricted Non-
    Residential Uses include the following:

    • The disposition, distribution or sale of Prohibited Substances or any establishment whose primary business
      is the sale of merchandise normally used or associated with Prohibited Substances

    • Any establishment whose primary business is the disposition, distribution, sale or viewing of adult or
      pornographic materials or activities, including strip clubs and adult bookstores

    • Any use involving the disposition or sale of Hazardous Materials

    • Any establishment whose primary business is gambling or off-track betting

    • Any establishment whose primary business is the sale of alcoholic beverages for off-site consumption

    Restricted Party

    See Section 7.1.

    Restricted Party Lists

    See Section 7.1.
                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 34
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms



    Risk Rating

    A designation Freddie Mac gives to a Mortgage to reflect Freddie Mac’s current risk outlook associated with
    the Mortgage. Risk Ratings for all Mortgages in the retained portfolio are currently between three and 10 with
    three deemed the lowest level of risk associated with a Mortgage and 10 being the highest level of risk.

    SBL Mortgage

    A Mortgage originated under the SBL Purchase Product.

    SBL Physical Risk Report

    A report that evaluates the property condition and environmental hazards of a Property securing a Small
    Balance Loan (SBL) Mortgage, submitted using Form 1104.

    SBL Purchase Product

    An SBL Mortgage purchased from an SBL Seller/Servicer that had a principal balance between $1 million and
    $7.5 million and met certain additional criteria, as specified at the time of origination. Freddie Mac is no
    longer accepting SBL applications as of April 30, 2026.

    Loans of this size may be purchased by Freddie Mac under the Multifamily Conventional Cash Mortgage
    Purchase Program, described in Chapter 17. See Chapter 46SBL for Seller/Servicer obligations regarding the
    repurchase of defaulted SBL Mortgages, loss sharing and the securitization process.

    Scheduled Interest

    Scheduled interest is the monthly interest scheduled to be paid under the amortization schedule applicable to
    the Mortgage.

    Scheduled Principal

    Scheduled Principal is the monthly principal scheduled to be paid under the amortization schedule applicable
    to the Mortgage, calculated in accordance with Section 53.1.

    Schedule of Values

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Scope Issues

    See Section 61.2(b).

    Securitization

    Securitization is the transaction in which the Note for a Mortgage is assigned to a REMIC (Real Estate
    Mortgage Investment Conduit), grantor trust or partnership trust.




                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 35
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Security Incident

    See Section 2.26(c).

    Security Instrument

    A Security Instrument is an instrument (mortgage, deed of trust, deed to secure debt) creating a valid lien on
    real estate.

    Seller

    Unless the context otherwise requires it, the term "Seller," as used in the Guide and the other Purchase and
    Servicing Documents, refers to an Optigo Lender or a Multifamily Structured Transaction Lender acting in its
    capacity as a Seller of Mortgages to Freddie Mac.

    Seller/Servicer

    Unless the context otherwise requires it, the term "Seller/Servicer," as used in the Guide and the other
    Purchase and Servicing Documents, refers to a Seller, a Servicer or an Optigo Lender.

    Seller Application

    Seller Application is the application between the Seller/Servicer and the Borrower for the Seller/Servicer to
    make a loan to the Borrower to be secured by the Property and to be sold to Freddie Mac.

    Seller Representative

    See Section 11.8.

    Seniors Housing Liability Assessment

    See Section 21.2.

    Seniors Housing Mortgage

    See Section 21.2.

    Senior Management

    A natural person who serves as one of the following positions for a Seller/Servicer:
    •   Owner
    •   President
    •   Vice President or other officer in charge of managing or overseeing any aspect of the Seller/Servicer’s
        Freddie Mac business
    •   Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
    •   Chief Operating Officer (COO)
    •   Chief Financial Officer (CFO)


                                                                                            Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 36
             The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
             web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    •   Chief Information Officer (CIO), Chief Technology Officer (CTO), or Chief Information Security Officer
        (CISO)
    •   Chief Risk Officer (CRO)
    •   Corporate Secretary
    •   General Counsel
    •   Director
    •   Chairman of the Board
    •   General Partner; or
    •   Member or manager of an LLC

    Servicer

    Unless the context otherwise requires it, the term “Servicer,” as used in the Guide and the other Purchase and
    Servicing Documents, refers to an entity acting in its capacity of Servicing multifamily Mortgages for Freddie
    Mac. A Servicer may be an Optigo Lender, a Multifamily Structured Transaction Seller/Servicer, a Servicer
    approved on a Servicing-only basis, or a Servicing Agent.

    Servicer Delegation Requirement

    The following requirement that must be satisfied in order for a certain servicing activity to be eligible for
    delegation to a Servicer with respect to a Mortgage:

    The Mortgage must either be: (i) owned by Freddie Mac, provided the Servicer has not received notification
    from Freddie Mac that the Mortgage has been designated for inclusion in a Securitization, (ii) in a 55-Day Multi
    PC, or (iii) in a Securitization where Freddie Mac is the master servicer.

    Servicing

    Servicing is the performance of applicable obligations described in the Purchase and Servicing Documents,
    including tasks necessary to maintain Mortgages sold to Freddie Mac in a manner that protects Freddie Mac's
    interests.

    Servicing Agent

    A Servicing Agent is a Servicer that has received Freddie Mac's authorization to act on behalf of another
    Servicer in Servicing Mortgages purchased by Freddie Mac. This role may also be referred to as a
    “subservicer” provided, as used in this definition, the reference to "subservicer" will not be construed to have
    the same meaning as such term is used in connection with a Securitization.

    Servicing Spread

    For TEL Mortgages, the Servicing Spread is the fee payable by the Borrower to the Servicer under the project
    loan agreement and specified by Freddie Mac in the Letter of Commitment.

    For all other Mortgages, the Servicing Spread is the amount of the interest income received and retained by
    the Servicer as compensation for servicing a multifamily Mortgage purchased by Freddie Mac. Freddie Mac
    specifies the Servicing Spread in the Purchase and Servicing Documents.
                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 37
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms



    Shared Access Agreement

    A Shared Access Agreement is an agreement that provides for access to a Property via an easement or
    private road.

    Shared Use Agreement

    A Shared Use Agreement is an agreement that provides for the sharing, joint use and maintenance of
    Recreational Facilities and/or Essential Facilities.

    Short Term Rental Assistance Contact

    See Section 23.3(a).

    Significant Repairs or Replacements

    Significant Repairs or Replacements are those that must be completed in order to protect the tenants from Life
    Safety Hazards, prevent significant physical or functional decline of the Property and/or negatively impact the
    value of the Property. Examples of Significant Repairs or Replacements include repairs or replacements to

    •   Structural elements such as framing, foundations, balconies, and stairs

    •   Major building systems, such as boilers, heating, ventilation and cooling (HVAC), electrical, plumbing, and
        elevators

    •   Defects that negatively impact the Property’s habitability or income potential

    Single Asset Entity

    A Single Asset Entity is a Borrower that is structured so that it:

    •   Will not acquire, own, hold, lease, operate, manage, maintain, develop or improve any assets other than
        the Mortgaged Property and such Personal as may be necessary for the operation of the Mortgaged
        Property and will conduct and operate its business as presently conducted and operated

    •   Will not engage in any business or activity other than the ownership, operation and maintenance of the
        Mortgaged Property and activities incidental to such ownership, operation, and maintenance

    Single Counsel

    For TEL Mortgages, as further described in Chapters 25 and 25A, Single Counsel represents Freddie Mac and
    Seller/Servicers jointly in the origination, delivery and purchase of TEL Mortgages.

    Single Purpose Entity

    An Single Purpose Entity is a Borrower or SPE Equity Owner that is structured with a single purpose and
    usually owns only one asset to avoid becoming insolvent due to its owner’s conduct and that is insulated from
    harmful effects of the insolvency of others.


                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 38
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Skilled Nursing Property

    See Section 21.2.

    Soft Subordinate Debt

    See Section 19.2(f).

    SPE Equity Owner

    An SPE Equity Owner is a Delaware single member limited liability company or a corporation that acts as a
    general partner of a limited partnership Borrower or as the managing member of a limited liability company
    Borrower. The concept of an SPE Equity Owner is not applicable if the Borrower is a Delaware single member
    limited liability company that is a Single Purpose Entity or if the Borrower is a corporation.

    Special Moisture or Mold Issues Inspection

    A Special Moisture or Mold Issues Inspection is a specific inspection protocol, set forth in Section 8.3(c), which
    is used to evaluate existing moisture or Mold issues.

    Special Servicing Request

    A Special Servicing Request is a Borrower request for Freddie Mac approval of certain Borrower actions. For
    example, a Special Servicing Request is required for a Transfer of Ownership, Subordinate Financing, a
    request for a partial release, the grant of an easement, certain changes to the Repair Reserve or Replacement
    Reserve, and a waiver of the insurance requirements.

    Specific Insurance Limit

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Sponsor Meeting

    See Section 11.8.

    Sponsor Representative

    See Section 11.8.

    State

    As used in this Guide, the term "State" includes the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin
    Islands as well as the 50 states.

    Stand-Alone Memory Care Property

    See Section 21.2.




                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 39
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Student Housing Property

    A Student Housing Property is a multifamily Property with a student occupancy rate of more than 50 percent.
    These Properties cater to a student tenant base because of proximity to colleges or universities and may have
    been constructed as “Purpose Built/Dedicated Student Housing,” or they may be conventional multifamily
    Properties currently targeted for student tenants.

    Subordinate Financing

    Subordinate Financing is any Mortgage or other lien that is subordinate to the lien of the first Mortgage on the
    Property.

    Substantial Rehabilitation

    The expenditure of more than $35,000 per unit in rehabilitation and/or work involving major building systems or
    structural components that coincide with significant building code compliance repairs/upgrades or that will
    displace significant numbers of tenants for a material amount of time.

    Supplemental Mortgage

    See Section 20.1.

    Suspicious Activity

    Activity that a Seller or Servicer reasonably believes may involve actual or possible money laundering, terrorist
    financing, mortgage-related fraud or other financial crimes, and which is undertaken by any party involved in
    any stage of the origination, underwriting, or Servicing of a Freddie Mac Mortgage.

    Targeted Affordable Housing Mortgage

    A Mortgage originated under either of the following:

    •   Targeted Affordable Housing (TAH) prior approval model, described in the Multifamily Seller/Servicer
        Guide

    •   Delegated Underwriting Model for TAH, described in the Freddie Mac Delegated Underwriting for Targeted
        Affordable Housing Guide (TAH Guide)

    Tax Exempt Bond Credit Enhancement Mortgages

    Tax Exempt Bond Credit Enhancement Mortgages are Mortgages that are used as collateral for tax exempt
    bond transactions in which Freddie Mac has entered into a Credit Enhancement Agreement in a specially
    negotiated transaction.

    Tax-Exempt Loan

    A Tax-Exempt Loan is originated under Chapter 25 or Chapter 25A.

    Tenant-Based Rental Assistance Vouchers

    See Section 23.4
                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 40
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms



    Title Agent

    An approved agent or agency authorized by the Title Insurance Underwriter to write or issue a Title Policy.

    Title Company

    Individually and/or collectively, any Title Insurance Underwriter, Title Agent, and/or escrow and settlement
    company that is issuing a Title Policy, recording documents and/or performing escrow and settlement
    functions in connection with a Mortgage transaction. When a Title Insurance Underwriter and a Title Agent are
    handling separate matters for a Mortgage closing, the term Title Company will include both such parties.

    Title Insurance Underwriter

    An entity that underwrites and issues, or authorizes issuance of, a Title Policy or, as applicable, reinsurance or
    coinsurance for a Title Policy, that is the party insuring the risks addressed by the Title Policy or such
    reinsurance or coinsurance, and which is licensed to do business in the jurisdiction where the Property is
    located (unless such jurisdiction is Iowa) and regularly issuing title insurance in such jurisdiction. A Title
    Insurance Underwriter may also authorize its Title Agent to write a Title Policy.

    Title Policy

    A single paid-up loan title insurance policy meeting the requirements in Chapter 29 and the Title Policy and
    Endorsement Requirements.

    Total Insurable Value

    See Section 31.1(c).

    Transfer of Ownership

    For the purposes of Chapter 41, Transfers of Ownership and Chapter 41SBL, SBL Transfers of Ownership is
    any conveyance or other transfer of (a) an interest in the Property (including fee simple title or a Mortgage or
    other lien) or (b) an interest in the Borrower entity, which conveyance or transfer, if carried out without Freddie
    Mac's prior written approval, would violate a due-on-transfer provision or prohibition on Subordinate Financing
    contained in the Loan Documents.

    Transfer of Servicing

    See Section 42.2(a).

    Ultimate Control

    Ultimate persons or entities that have Control (direct or indirect) of an entity. A party with Ultimate Control
    must be one of the following:
    •   An individual,
    •   Private Investment Fund,
    •   A revocable trust (including the settlor/grantor and trustee of the revocable trust), or
    •   A U.S. public company (U.S. publicly traded entity).
                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 41
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms



    If an individual or entity is a Control party in a Private Investment Fund which is a Key Borrower Principal, then
    that individual or entity must be disclosed and will be subject to all Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC)
    and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Laws compliance-related obligations set forth in the Guide, including those
    identified in Chapters 2, 9, 41, 43 and 44.

    Unfunded Forward Commitment

    See Sections 17A.1, 19A.1(b), 25A.2 and 28A.2.

    Utility Efficiency

    Utility Efficiency is a Freddie Mac suite of offerings for Borrowers who have made or plan to make their
    Properties more energy and water efficient.

    Utility Efficiency Certificate

    Utility Efficiency Certificate is available for Properties that: (i) have a building performance certificate or rating
    as set forth in Section 55.2 and (ii) meet Freddie Mac affordability requirements.

    Utility Efficiency Certified

    Properties are considered Utility Efficiency Certified when they have a Utility Efficiency Certificate.

    Utility Efficiency Consultant

    Utility Efficiency Consultant is a certified environmental design/inspection or engineering firm that meets the
    requirements set forth in Chapter 65.

    Utility Efficiency Improvements

    Utility Efficiency Improvements are the energy and water conservation measures selected by the Borrower
    from the list of qualifying conservation measures identified in a Green Assessment. These selected
    conservation measures are identified as Utility Efficiency Improvements in the Utility Efficiency Improvement
    Rider to the Loan Documents.

    Utility Efficiency Loan

    Utility Efficiency Loan is an option available when a Borrower commits to making Utility Efficiency
    Improvements identified in a Green Assessment.

    Value-Add Mortgage

    See Section 17.2.

    Web Searches

    Web Searches are search engine reviews that are performed to identify Financial Crimes, litigation, negative
    credit events and events that would create reputational risk for Freddie Mac.



                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 42
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    Weighted-Average Coupon

    The Weighted-Average Coupon of any group of Mortgages is calculated by:

    •   Multiplying the purchased unpaid principal balance of each Mortgage by the Coupon Rate of such
        Mortgage (resulting in a "product" for each Mortgage)

    •   Adding the products so obtained for all of the Mortgages

    •   Dividing the sum of the products by the aggregate purchased unpaid principal balance of all the Mortgages
        in the group

    Freddie Mac's determination of the Weighted-Average Coupon is conclusive.

    Weighted-Average Remaining Maturity

    The Weighted-Average Remaining Maturity of any group of Mortgages is calculated by:

    •   Multiplying the unpaid principal balance of each Mortgage by the number of months remaining to maturity
        of such Mortgage (resulting in a "product" for each Mortgage)

    •   Adding the products so obtained for all of the Mortgages

    •   Dividing the sum of all the products by the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all the Mortgages in the
        group

    Freddie Mac's determination of the Weighted-Average Remaining Maturity is conclusive.

    Workforce Housing Preservation

    Workforce Housing Preservation is a Conventional Mortgage product designed to preserve middle-income
    rental housing stock by restricting rents through Borrower-elected rent restrictions in the Loan Agreement or
    third-party, non-governmental rent restrictions subject to Freddie Mac review and approval of the third-party
    agreement terms. See Section 17.6.

    Yield Maintenance Period

    The Yield Maintenance Period is that period of time specified in certain Notes or Riders to Notes during which
    the Borrower's prepayment of the Mortgage results in its obligation to pay a Yield Maintenance Prepayment
    Premium.

    Yield Maintenance Prepayment Premium

    The Yield Maintenance Prepayment Premium is a prepayment premium charged in connection with any
    prepayment of certain Mortgages during the Yield Maintenance Period.

    Yield Rate

    The Yield Rate is the yield on the applicable U.S. Treasury.


                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 43
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Multifamily Seller/Servicer Guide
Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms



  Commonly Used Acronyms

  ACM

  Asbestos-containing materials

  AIF

  Annual Inspection Form

  AMI

  Area Median Income

  AML

  Anti-Money Laundering

  ARM

  Adjustable-Rate Mortgage

  ASTM

  American Society for Testing and Materials. See Chapters 61, 62, 64 and 66.

  CCRC

  Continuing Care Retirement Community

  C-PACE

  Commercial Property Assessed Clean Energy

  Co-op

  Cooperative

  CRT

  Consent Request Tracker

  DCR

  Debt Coverage Ratio



                                                                                         Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 44

          The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs ® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the
          AllRegs web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    DBRS

    Dominion Bond Rating Service

    DDLPI

    Due Date of Last Paid Installment

    DMS

    Document Management System

    ECOI

    Equity Conflict of Interest

    EGI

    Effective Gross Income

    EPA

    The United States Environmental Protection Agency

    EPSH

    Employer Enabled Permanent Supportive Housing

    FAM

    Freddie Mac Access Manager

    FEMA

    Federal Emergency Management Agency

    FHA

    Federal Housing Administration

    FIC

    Fee Inspector Company

    ICT

    Insurance Compliance Tool




                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 45
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    IV

    Insurable Value

    LBP

    Lead-based paint

    LIA

    Legal Issues Analysis

    LIHTC

    Low-Income Housing Tax Credit

    LODR

    Letter of Determination Review

    LOMA

    Letter of Map Amendment

    LOMR

    Letter of Map Revision

    LST

    Loan Submission Template

    LTV

    Loan-to-Value

    MES

    Multifamily Eligibility System

    MHC

    Manufactured Housing Community

    MHROC

    Manufactured Housing Resident-Owned Community




                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 46
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    MMP

    Moisture Management Plan

    MSIA

    Multifamily Securities Investor Access tool

    MTNA

    Mortgage Transaction Narrative Analysis

    NFIP

    National Flood Insurance Program

    NOI

    Net Operating Income

    OFAC

    Office of Foreign Assets Control

    OUS

    Origination and Underwriting System

    PC

    Participation Certificate

    PCB

    Polychlorinated biphenyls

    PLIM

    Preliminarily Legal Issues Memorandum

    PRS

    Property Reporting System

    RAC

    Rental Assistance Contract

    RCV

    Replacement Cost Value
                                                                                          Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 47
           The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
           web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms



    REIT

    Real Estate Investment Trust

    REMIC

    Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduit

    REO

    Real Estate Owned

    S&P

    Standard and Poor’s

    SAE

    Single Asset Entity

    SBL

    Small Balance Loan

    SFHA

    Special Flood Hazard Area

    SOV

    Schedule of Values

    SPE

    Single Purpose Entity

    TAH

    Targeted Affordable Housing

    TEL

    Tax-Exempt Loan

    TIV

    Total Insurable Value




                                                                                           Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 48
            The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
            web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
Guide – Glossary and List of Commonly Used Acronyms


    UPB

    Unpaid Principal Balance

    WAC

    Weighted Average Coupon

    WARM

    Weighted Average Remaining Maturity




                                                                                         Guide Bulletin Update 08/25/26 Glossary – Page 49
          The current official electronic version of the Guide is published by AllRegs® and accessible via either mf.freddiemac.com (for free) or the AllRegs
          web site of ICE Mortgage Technology (with a paid subscription).
