IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
    Approved              Effective
 March 30, 2026      February 26, 2026
              Per ON 36980
                 Commission Secretary
IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
    Approved              Effective
 March 30, 2026      February 26, 2026
              Per ON 36980
                 Commission Secretary
IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
    Approved              Effective
 March 24, 2026      February 26, 2026
              Per ON 36982
                 Commission Secretary
IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
    Approved              Effective
 March 30, 2026      February 26, 2026
              Per ON 36980
                 Commission Secretary
                                                              ~~.




                                                        IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
                                                          APPROVED
Capitol Water Corporation
Sheet 1 Revision ---
Replaces All Previous Sheets
                                                           APR20 '     09      EFFECTIVE

                                                                                  MAY 1 - '
                                                                        rv. 30tlod-.
                                                               ~Lt.~            SECRETARV



                     GENERAL RULES &. REGULATIONS
                      FOR SMALL WATER UTILITIES

       GENERAL
       1.1    The Customer , in receiving water service, and the Company, in
               providing water service , shall both agree to abide by these rules
               and regulations.
       1.2     In the event that there is a conflict between these rules and
               regulations and the Utility Customer Relations Rules (UCRR) and
               the Utility Customer Information Rules (UCIR), the Rules and
               Regulations of the Idaho Public Utilities Commission (Commission)
               shall take precedence unless an exception has been granted.
       1.3     All recurring and non-recurring charges shall be approved in
               advance by the Commission.


       DEFINITIONS
               Applicant - a potential customer (person , business or government
               agency) applying for service to the Company and subject to the
               Commission s rules and regulations.
               Billing Period - the period of time between bills from the Company
               for normal services rendered.
               Commission - Idaho Public Utilities Commission.
       2.4     Commodity Charge - a recurring charge based only on the quantity
               of water used.
               Company - the water company.
               Connection or Hook-Up Fee - a non- recurring charge paid by a
               Customer requesting service for partial or full recovery of the
               Company s cost of providing a new service connection.
               Contribution in Aid of Construction - a non-recurring charge paid by
               a Customer or developer to help defray the cost of system
               expansion.



Issued 4/15/2009                                    Issued by Capitol Water Corporation
                                                      be ice           sid nt

Effective 5/1/2009                             /1




                                                                                  1 of 11
                                                                   ~.~
                                                          IC' ::0 PUBliC U I ILl I'lL:":' , 2:J:v1MISSION
                                                                  ?PROVED EFFECTIVE
Capitol Water Corporation
Sheet 2 Revision ---
Replaces All Previous Sheets
                                                            f..


                                                             APR20 '   09
                                                                   r-0t- rD 3Ulliid-
                                                                                         MAY    1- '

                                                                                     SECRETARY


               Customer - a person , business or government agency responsible
               for paying bills and complying with the rules and regulations of the
               company.
               Customer Charge - a recurring fixed charge to recover a portion of
               the cost of meter reading and billing.
         10    Fixed or Flat Rate - a recurring charge of a fixed amount , usually in
               an unmetered system.
         11     Franchise Tax - the tax imposed on a Company by a governmental
               entity for the privilege of   doing business within its boundaries.
          12   Late Payment Charge - the non-recurring charge levied against any
               delinquent balance.

          13   Minimum Charge - the minimum recurring charge for a billing
               period that  mayor may not include a specified quantity of water.
          14   Non- recurring Charges - the charges that are not assessed each
               billing period.
          15   Premises - the Customer s property including out buildings which
               are normally located on one lot or parcel of ground.
          16   Rate Schedule - the schedules of all recurring and non-recurring
               charges of the Company.
          17   Reconnection Charge - the charge paid by a Customer to the
               Company to restore service after disconnection.
          18   Recurring Charges - the charges that are assessed each billing
               period.
          19   Tariff - the rate schedules and the rules and regulations which
               govern the Company s service.
          20   Utility Customer Information Rules (UCIR) - Information to
               Customers of Gas , Electric, and Water Public Utilities - IDAPA
               31.21.02. 000 et seq.
          21   Utility Customer Relations Rules (UCRR) - Customer Relations Rules
               for Gas , Electric , and Water Public Utilities Regulated by the Idaho
               Public Utilities Commission (The Utility Customer Relations Rules) -
               IDAPA 31.21.01.000 et seq.




Issued 4/15/2009                                    Issued by Capitol Water Corporation

Effective 5/1/2009
                                                   ~:?Z                               2 of 11
                                                              IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
                                                                APPROVED
                                                                          09
Capitol Water Corporation                                                            EFFECTIVE
Sheet 3 Revision ...
                                                                APR20 '                        MAY 1 - '
Replaces    Previous Sheets
             All
                                                                   f'1VI . 0, /1). 301
                                                                                       UJ;;).

                                                                                       SECRETA

           SERVICE FOR NEW CUSTOMERS
                   The Company shall furnish service to applicants within its
                   certificated service area in accordance with rates and the rules and
                   regulations approved by the Commission.
                   Applicants for water service may be required to sign a standard
                   form of service application.
                   The Company shall not be obligated to provide service at a service
                   location until any required deposit has been received by the
                   Company in accordance with the UCRR.
           3.4     Special contracts may be required where large investments in
                   special facilities are necessary to provide the requested service.
                   The Company may require contribution toward such investment
                   and establish such minimum charges as are deemed necessary. All
                   such contracts shall be subject to the approval of the Commission.
                   The Company reserves the right to place limitations on the amount
                   and character of water service it will supply and to refuse service if
                   in its opinion:
                   a.    the Company is required to refuse or limit service by
                          regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over the Company;
                         the requested service installation is of larger size than is
                          necessary to properly serve the premises;
                         the permanency of the building, structure , or institution
                         requesting to be served is such that the Company
                          investment in such service is jeopardized;
                         the depth of the applicant' s service line is less than the
                         minimum depth required for frost protection;
                         the applicants ' proposed service, main or other appurtenance
                          does not conform to good engineering design or meet the
                          standard specifications of the Company; or
                           if the applicant refuses to agree to abide by the rules and
                           regulations of the Company.
                   If the Company denies service to an applicant for any reason , it
                   shall immediately provide the applicant with a written explanation
                   of its decision in accordance with the UCRR.

Issued 4/15/2009                                     Issued by Capitol Water Corporation

Effective 5/1/2009
                                                  ;z:;~                              3 of 11
                                                        IDAHO PUBLIC U IILlTIES COMMISSION
                                                          APPROVED
                                                                      09
                                                                                EFFECTIVE
Capitol Water Corporation
Sheet 4 Revision ---                                       APR20 '                 MAY   1- '
Replaces All Previous Sheets                                  ?-€A.        36/vd-.
                                                                               SECRETAR


       DEPOSITS
               Rules and Regulations regarding deposits can be found in the
               UCRR.


       RATES
               Rates charged for water service and supply shall be those published
               in the Company s tariff and approved by the Commission.

       BILLING AND PAYMENT
               All Customers shall be billed on a regular basis as identified on the
               applicable rate schedule.
               If the system is metered , the Company shall try to read the meters
               prior to each billing unless specified differently on the applicable
               rate schedule. If the Company s meter reader is unable to gain
               access to the premises to read the meter , or in the event the meter
               fails to register , the Company will estimate the Customer s water
               consumption for the current billing period based on known
               consumption for a prior similar period or average of several
               periods. Subsequent readings will automatically adjust for
               differences between estimated and actual. Bills based on estimated
               consumption shall be clearly marked as " estimated"
               All bills shall clearly indicate the balance due, and may be due and
               payable no less than 15 days after the date rendered. All bills not
               paid by due date may be considered delinquent and service may be
               disconnected subject to the provisions of the UCRR.
       6.4     A Late Payment Charge may be levied against any delinquent
               account. All payments received by the next billing date shall be
               applied to the Customer s account prior to calculating the Late
               Payment Charge.
               The minimum bill or customer charge shall apply when service is
               provided for less than one month.
               Owners of premises with one or more condominiums , buildings,
               stores , apartments or any other divisions of like or similar


Issued 4/15/2009


Effective 5/1/2009
                                              ~ntIssued by Capitol Water Corporation




                                                                              4 of 11
                                                                   ~.~.

                                                     IUi-\HO PUBliC uTiLI flES COMMISSION
                                                       APPROVED
Capitol Water Corporation
Sheet 5 Revision ---
Replaces All Previous Sheets
                                                       APR 2 0 '
                                                          p~ - o.
                                                                   09          EFFECTIVE


                                                                            ~DIUJ
                                                                                      MAY 1 -



                                                           t-                       SECRETARY


               character , all of which are served from one (1) service connection
               are responsible for the entire water charges. If the owner desires
               to cease being responsible for water bills for such places and
               desires that the occupant of each division will be responsible for his
               or her respective bill , such transfer of responsibility will not be
               accepted or recognized by the Company until the plumbing
               arrangements of the building or premises are so changed by the
               owner or his or her agent as to permit the Company, to its
               satisfaction , to serve each division or occupant separately from the
               other occupants in the same building.
               Accounts shall be continued and water bills rendered regularly until
               the Company has been duly notified to discontinue service.


       METERING (If Applicable)
               Meters will be installed by the Company near the Customer
               property line or at any other reasonable location on the Customer
               premises that is mutually agreed upon.
               The Company s representative shall be given access to the
               Customer s premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
               obtaining meter readings. In the event of recurring inaccessibility
               the Company   may,   at its option and after notifying the customer
               relocate its metering equipment at the Customer s expense.
               The Company shall be responsible for the maintenance of its
               metering equipment. Meters are considered to be sufficiently
               accurate if tests indicate that meter accuracy   is within2 percent.
               When for any reason a meter fails to register within these limits
               accuracy, the Customer s use of water shall be estimated on the
               basis of available data and charges shall be adjusted accordingly.
               Corrected bills shall then be sent out to the customer and additional
               payment or refund arrangements shall be made in accordance with
               the UCRR.
       7.4     The Company reserves the right to test and/or replace any meter.
               Upon deposit of a " Meter Testing Fee " by a Customer , the Company
               will test the Customer s meter. If the test indicates that the meter
               over-registers by more than 2 percent , it shall be replaced with an
               accurate meter at no cost to the Customer and the " Meter Testing
               Fee " shall be refunded and water bills shall be adjusted in

Issued 4/15/2009                                 Issued by Capitol Water Corporation

Effective 5/1/2009
                                              Z;;~                                    5 of 11
                                                                                           : -"




                                                      lu,",; 10 PUBliC u tali!"!!:;.;, ,     ;\it\i1ISSION

Capitol Water Corporation
Sheet 6 Revision ...
Replaces All Previous Sheets
                                                        APPROVED
                                                         APR20 '
                                                            p.(M -
                                                                         og
                                                                      of\,).   3 OJ l!) ~
                                                                                           EFFECTIVE

                                                                                           MAY 1 - ' U:1


                                                                                    SECRETARY
                                                              ~&b.~




               accordance with the UCRR. Meter Testing Fees shall require prior
               approval by the Commission.
               At the Company s discretion , un-metered Customers may be
               converted to metered service if such transition occurs in a planned,
               systematic manner without unreasonable discriminations and if the
               Company has an approved metered rate.
               The Company will have the right to set meters or other devices
               without notice to the Customer for the detection and prevention of
               fraud.
               In any building where the meter is to be installed in the basement
               the incoming water pipe must enter the basement at least sixteen
               (16) inches from the riser in order that a meter can be set in a
               horizontal position in the basement. All pipes to the different parts
               of the building or grounds must lead from the riser at least one (1)
               foot above the elbow.


       CUSTOMER PLUMBING AND APPLIANCES
               All plumbing, piping, fixtures and appliances on the Customer s side
               of the service connection will be installed and maintained under the
               responsibility and at the expense of the Customer or owner of the
               premises.
               The plumbing, piping, fixtures and appliances shall be maintained
               in conformity with all municipal , state and federal requirements.
               The nature and condition of this plumbing, piping and equipment
               will be such as not to endanger life or property, interfere with
               service to other Customers or permit those with metered services
               to divert system water without meter registration.
               A stop-and-waste valve will be installed on the Customer
               plumbing in a place always accessible and so located as to permit
               shutting off the water for the entire premises with the least
               possible delay.

       8.4     All persons having boilers, water tanks or other equipment supplied
               by direct pressure from the Company s mains should install a
               pressure relief valve , or other device to serve the same purpose , so
               as to prevent excess pressure from forcing hot water and/or steam
               back into the water meter and mains of the Company. All damage

Issued 4/15/2009                                Issued by Capitol Water Corporation

Effective 5/1/2009

                                                                                     6 of 11
                                                         IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
Capitol Water Corporation                                  APPROVED             EFFECTIVE

Sheet 7 Revision ---                                                09 MAVl- "O9
                                                            ii.rR20 '
Replaces All Previous Sheets                                   P-0\. ru. 301Lo~
                                                                                SECRETA


               to the Company s property resulting from the failure to properly
               equip plumbing with a relief valve will be billed to the Customer.
               The Company is not obligated to perform any service whatever in
               locating leaks or other trouble with the customer s piping.
               When the premises served by the Company are also served in any
               manner from another water supply of any kind , an approved
               backflow prevention device shall be installed at the service
               connection. Water service for either stand- by or other purposes
               will not be furnished until piping and connections are inspected and
               approved by a representative of the Company.
               Property owners will not be allowed to connect the water service of
               different properties together.
               All of the Customer s service pipes and fixtures must be kept in
               repair and protected from freezing at his or her expense. When
               there are leaking or defective pipes or fixtures , the water may be
               turned off at the option of the Company until the proper repairs are
               made.

       INSTALLATION OF SERVICE CONNECTIONS
               The service connection is the property of the Company and as such
               the Company is responsible for its installation and maintenance.
               consists of piping, curbstop and valve or meter box and a meter , if
               the system is metered. The service connection transmits water
               from the Company s water main to a valve or meter box generally
               located near the Customer s property line. All piping, valves or
               appliances beyond this point shall be the property and
               responsibility of the Customer.
               The Company reserves the right to designate the size and location
               of the service line , curbstop, meter (if applicable) and meter or
               valve box and the amount of space which must be left unobstructed
               for the installation and future maintenance and operation thereof.
               Where a service connection is desired for premises on which there
               is no permanent structure, the Company will install a service
               connection to said premises only upon payment by the applicant of
               the estimated cost of said service connection. If within a period of
               five (5) years from the installation of said service connection a

Issued 4/15/2009                                Issued by Capitol Water Corporation

Effective 5/1/2009

                                                                             7 of 11
                                                            p~ -




                                                       IDAHO PUBliC U I III fit.~ C-OMMISSION

Capitol Water Corporation
Sheet 8 Revision ---
                                                         APPROVED
                                                         APR20 '     09
                                                                   6,Y\.).
                                                                                  EFFECTIVE



                                                                             301 Lod-
                                                                                     MAV 1 -


Replaces All Previous Sheets                                  ~&t.~              SECRETARY



               permanent structure is erected on the premises, the Company will
               refund , with interest , the difference between any approved new
               Customer charges in effect at the time of connection , and the
              applicant' s advance.
       9.4    The extra costs of any out-of- the-ordinary circumstances requiring
               additional equipment or special construction techniques involved in
               the installation of a service connection will be agreed to in advance
               by the Customer and the Company.


10.    REPLACEMENT OR ENLARGEMENT OF SERVICE CONNECTION
       10.     Unless otherwise provided herein , the Company shall replace or
               enlarge service connections at its own expense as follows:
               a.      whenever it is necessary to change the location of any
                       service connection due to relocation or abandonment of the
                       Company s mains; and
                       for commercial or industrial services where the type or
                       volume of use has changed and the enlargement will result
                       in sufficient increase in annual revenue to justify the
                    enlargement.
       10. 2 The relocation , enlargement or reduction of service connections for
               the convenience of the Customer will be at the expense of the
               Customer. Prior to such relocation , enlargement or reduction , the
               Customer will deposit the estimated cost thereof with the
               Company. Within fifteen (15) days, a refund will be made to the
               Customer in the amount by which the estimated cost exceeds the
               actual cost. The amount by which the actual cost exceeds the
               estimated cost will be due and payable within fifteen (15) days
               after billing for such deficiency.
       10.     Enlargement of any service connection will be made only after such
               time as the Customer s plumbing inside his or her premises have
               been enlarged sufficiently to accommodate the additional capacity.




Issued 4/15/2009


Effective 5/1/2009

                                                                                 8 of 11
                                                          IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
                                                            APPROVED
                                                                       09
Capitol Water Corporation                                                        EFFECTIVE

Sheet 9 Revision ---
                                                             APR20 '              MAY 1": '

Replaces All Previous Sheets                                    PM- 6,t'D- 30iUd-
                                                                             SECRETARY


11.    DISCONNECTION AND RECONNECTION OF SERVICE
       11.1 When a Customer desires to discontinue service he shall give notice
               to the Company at least two (2) days in advance and be
               responsible for all water consumed for the two (2) days after the
               date of such notice.
       11.2 The Company shall discontinue a Customer s service on an
            involuntary basis only in accordance with UCRR.
       11.3 When it becomes necessary for the Company to involuntarily
               discontinue water service to a Customer , service shall be
               reconnected only after all bills for service then due have been paid
               or satisfactory payment arrangements have been made.
       11.4 A reconnection fee        may   be charged each time a Customer is
               disconnected , either voluntarily or involuntarily, and reconnected at
               the same premises. The reconnection fee will be paid before service
               is restored. Reconnection fees shall not be charged for any
               situation or circumstance in which the Customer s water supply is
               disconnected by the Company for its convenience.
       11.5 The Company reserves the right at any time, upon notice, to shut
               off the water for maintenance or expansion and, in emergencies,
               may   do so without notice. The Company shall at all times use
               reasonable diligence and care to prevent interruption of said water
               service.
       11.6 Except in the case of an emergency, no one , except an authorized
               Company representative, shall turn on or turn off the water on the
               Company s side of the service connection.

12.    EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS
        12. 1 The extension of system water mains for the purpose of providing
               new service shall be handled in accordance with the " Uniform Main
               Extension Rules for Small Water Companies " which is attached to
               these Rules and Regulations as an Appendix.




Issued 411512009


Effective 51112009


                                                                            9 of 11
                                                              ~~~
                                                        IDAHO PUBliC U IILlT't:~ \.-vMMISSION
                                                          APPROVED
Capitol Water Corporation
Sheet 10 Revision ...
Replaces All Previous Sheets
                                                          APR20 '
                                                              P-vt.
                                                                      og          EFFECTIVE



                                                                      OJ\). 30(LDd-.
                                                                                    MAY 1 - '


                                                                               SECRETARY



13.    MISCELLANEOUS
       13. 1 No customer shall permit any person from another premises to take
               water from his or her water service or tap for more than (1) week
               without the written permission and consent of the Company.
       13. 2 No person acting either on his or her own behalf or an agent of any
               person , firm, corporation or municipality not authorized by the
               Company shall take any water from any fire hydrant on the
               Company s system except in the case of an emergency.
       13.     No person shall place upon or about any hydrant , gate, box , meter
               meter box or other property of the Company any building material
               or other substance so as to prevent free access at all times to the
               same.
       13.4 Service will be maintained to domestic Customers on a preferential
             basis. Delivery of water under all schedules may be restricted,
             interrupted or curtailed at the discretion of the Company in case of
             shortage or threatened shortage of water.
       13. 5 No rate contract or application is assignable from one user to
             another , except upon agreement of all parties concerned.
       13. 6 The Company representative shall be given access to the premises
               of the Customer at all reasonable hours for obtaining meter
               readings , for turning on or shutting off the flow of water , for
               inspecting, removing, repairing or protecting from abuse or fraud
               any of the property of the Company installed on the premises.
               Access shall be granted at all times for emergency purposes.
       13.     No one shall tamper or interfere with the Company s equipment or
               property, nor shall repairs , connections or replacements be made
               without the Company authorization.
       13.     Whenever an applicant desires service of a character for which
               there is no available service classification , a contract may be
               executed in lieu of a tariff. Any such contract shall be subject to
               the approval of the Idaho Public Utilities Commission.
        13.    Copies of the Company s rates and summary of rules and
               regulations shall be available at the Company s office and provided
               to customers upon commencement of service , and annually
               thereafter in accordance with the UCRR and the UCIR.


Issued 4/15/2009                                                             mtion

Effective 5/1/2009
                                                ~zor~                         10 of 11
                                                             IDAHO PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
Capitol Water Corporation                                      Approved                     Effective
                                                                May 10, 2010           June 1, 2010
Sheet 11 Revision ---                                               Jean D. Jewell Secretary
Replaces All Previous Sheets



14.    Special Provisions or Amendments

       14.1 Cross Connection Control-Backflow Prevention equipment.

       14.1a In accordance with Capitol Water Corporation’s Cross Connection
             Control program, as filed with the Idaho Department of
             Environmental Quality (IDEQ), the Company shall require an
             appropriate backflow prevention device be installed on any
             customer’s service connection whenever an actual or potential
             hazard is deemed to exist. Any such device shall appear on the
             State’s list of approved backflow prevention devices and be
             approved by the Company prior to installation.


       14.1b In the event that a backflow prevention device is required, it shall
             be installed, maintained and tested at the customer’s expense.
             Failure to install, maintain or test the required device will result in
             termination of service to the customer in accordance with IPUC’s
             General Rules and Regulations.


       14.1c The Company shall require that all backflow devices connected to
             the public drinking water system be tested upon installation, and
             annually thereafter or when relocated or repaired. All testing shall
             be completed by a State of Idaho certified backflow assembly tester
             (BAT). The results of the tests shall be reported to Capitol Water
             Corporation within 30 days from date of the test. The submitted
             form shall be pre-approved by the Company.

       14.1d It is the sole responsibility of the Customer to install, operate and
             maintain at all times their plumbing system in compliance with the
             current edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code.




Issued 4/26/2010                                Issued by Capitol Water Corporation
                                                Robert Price, President
Effective 6/1/2010
                                            /S/ H. Robert Price
                                                                              11 of 11
    UNIFORM MAIN EXTENSION RULE FOR WATER UTILITIES
          Based on Order No. 7830 (Case No. U-1500- 22)

A. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
1. Applicability
   a. All extensions of distribution mains from the utility s existing distribution
       system , to serve new customers , except for those specifically excluded
       below shall be made under the provisions of this Rule unless specific
       authority is first obtained from the Commission to devipte therefrom.
       main extension contract shall be executed by the utility and the applicant
       or applicants for the main extension before the utility commences
       construction work on said extension or , if constructed by applicant or
       applicants , before the facilities comprising the main extension are
       transferred to the utility.
   b. Extensions solely for fire hydrant , private fire protection , resale
       temporary, standby, or supplemental service shall not be made under this
       Rule.
   c. The utility may, but will not be required to , make extensions under this
       Rule in easements or rights- of- way where final grades have not been
       established , or where street grades have not been brought to those
       established by public authority. If extensions are made when grades have
       not been established and there is a reasonable probability that the
       existing grade will be changed , the utility shall require that the applicant
       or applicants for the main extension deposit , at the time of execution of
       the main extension agreement , the estimated net cost of relocating,
       raising, or lowering facilities upon establishment of final grades.
       Adjustment of any difference between the amount so deposited and the
       actual cost of relocating, raising, lowering facilities shall be made within
       ten (10) days after the utility has ascertained such actual cost. The net
       deposit representing actual cost is not subject to refund. The entire
       deposit related to the proposed relocation , raising or lowering shall be
       refunded when such displacements are determined by proper authority to
       be not required.

2. Definitions
    a. Bona Fide Customer , for the purposes of this Rule , shall be a customer
       (excluding any customer formerly served at the same location) who has
       given satisfactory evidence that service will be reasonably permanent to
       the property which has been improved with a building of permanent
       nature and to which service has commenced. The provision of service to a
        real estate developer or builder during the construction or development
        period shall not establish him as a bona fide customer.
    b. Real Estate Developer or Builder , for purposes of this Rule , shall include
        any individual , association of individuals , partnership, or corporation that
        divides a parcel of land into two (2) or more portions.
    c. Adjusted Construction Cost , for the purposes of this Rule , shall be
        reasonable and shall not exceed the costs recorded in conformity with
        generally accepted water utility accounting and sound engineering
        practices , and as specifically defined in the , Uniform System of Accounts
      for Water Utilities prescribed by the Commission , of installing facilities , of
      adequate capacity for the service requested. If the utility at its option
      should install facilities with' a larger capacity or resulting in a greater
      footage of extension than required for the service , the adjusted
      construction cost for the purposes of this Rule shall be determined by the
      application of an adjustment factor to actual construction cost of facilities
      installed. This factor shall be the ratio of estimated cost of required
      facilities to estimated cost of actual facilities installed.
   d. Commission shall mean the Idaho Public Utilities Commission.
3. Ownership, Design and Construction of Facilities

   a. Any facilities installed hereunder shall be the sole property of the utility.
       In those instances in which title to certain portions of the installation , such
       as fire hydrants , will be held by a political subdivision , such facilities shall
       not be included as a part of the main extension under this Rule.
   b. The size , type , quality of materials and their location shall be specified by
       the utility and the actual construction shall be done by the utility or by a
       constructing agency acceptable to it.
   c. Where the property of an applicant is located adjacent to a right- of- way,
       exceeding 70 feet in width , for a street , highway or other public purpose
       regardless of the width of the traveled way or pavement; or a freeway,
       waterway or railroad right- of- way, the utility may elect to install a main
       extension on the same side thereof as the property of the applicant and
       the estimated and adjusted construction costs in such case shall be based
       upon such an extension.
   d. When an extension must comply with an ordinance , regulation , or
       specification of public authority, the estimated and adjusted construction
       costs of said extension shall be based upon the facilities required comply
       therewith.
4. Estimates , Plans and Specifications

   a. Upon request by a potential applicant for a main extension , the utility shall
       prepare without charge a preliminary sketch and rough estimates of the
      cost of installation to be advanced by said applicant.
   b. Any applicant for a main extension requesting the utility to prepare
       detailed plans , specifications and cost estimates shall be required to
       deposit with the utility an amount equal to the estimated cost of
       preparation of such material. The utility shall , upon request , make
       available within 45 days after receipt of the deposit referred to above
       such plans , specifications and cost estimates of the proposed main
       extension. If the extension is to include oversizing of facilities to be done
       at the utility s expense appropriate details shall be set forth in the plans
       specifications and cost estimates.
   c. In the event a main extension contract with the utility is executed within
       180' days after the utility furnishes the detailed plans and specifications
       the deposit shall become a part of the advance , and shall be refunded in
       accordance with the terms of the main extension contract. If such contract
       is not so executed the deposit to cover the cost of preparing plans
       specifications and cost estimates shall be forfeited by the applicant for the
       main extension and the amount of the forfeited deposit shall be credited
      to the account or accounts to which the expense of preparing said
      material was charged.
   d. When detailed plans , specifications and cost estimates are requested the
      applicant for a main extension shall furnish a map to a suitable scale
      showing the street and lot layouts , and when requested by the utility,
      contours or other indication of the relative elevation of the various parts of
      the area to be developed. If changes are made subsequent to the
      presentation of this map by the applicant , and these changes require
      additional expense in revising plans , specifications and cost estimates this
      additional expense shall be borne by the applicant , not subject to refund
      and the additional expense thus recovered shall be credited to the account
      or accounts to which the additional expense was charged.
5. Timing and Adjustment of Advances

   a. Unless the applicant for the main extension elects to arrange for the
      installation of the extension himself as permitted by Section C1.c" the
      full amount of the required advance or an acceptable surety bond must be
      provided to the utility at the time of execution of the main extension
      agreement.
   b. If the applicant for a main extension posts a surety bond in lieu of cash
      such surety bond must be replaced with cash not less than ten (10)
      calendar days before construction is to commence; provided , however
      that if special facilities are required primarily for the service requested
      the applicant for the extension may be required to deposit sufficient cash
      to cover the cost of such special facilities before they are ordered by the
      utility.
   c. An applicant for a main extension who advances funds shall be provided
       with a , statement of actual construction cost and adjusted construction
       cost showing in reasonable detail the cost incurred for material , labor , any
       other direct and indirect costs , overheads, and total costs; or unit costs
       or contract costs; whichever are appropriate.
   d. Said statement shall be submitted within sixty (60) days after the actual
       construction costs of the installation have been ascertained by the utility.
       In the event that the actual construction costs for the entire installation
       shall not have been determined within 120 days after completion of
       construction work , a preliminary determination of actual and adjusted
       construction costs shall be submitted , based upon the best available
       information at that time.
   e. Any differences between the adjusted construction costs and the amount
       advanced shall be shown as a revision of the amount of advance and shall
       be payable within thirty (30) days of submission of the statement.
6. Assignment of Main Extension Contracts - Any contract entered into under
   Sections Band C of this Rule , or under similar provisions of former rules, may
   be assigned after settlement of adjusted construction costs , after written
   notice to the utility by the holder of said contract as shown by the utility
   records. Such assignment shall apply only to those refunds which become due
   more than thirty (30) days after the date of receipt by the utility of the notice
   of assignment. The utility shall not be required to make anyone refund
   payment under such contract to more than a single assignee.
7. Interpretations and Deviations - In case of disagreement or dispute regarding
   the application of any provision of this Rule , or in circumstances where the
   application of this Rule appears unreasonable to either party, the utility,
   applicant or applicants may refer the matter to the Commission for
   determination.
B. EXTENSIONS TO SERVE INDIVIDUALS
1. Free- Footage Allowance - The utility shall extend its water distribution mains
   to serve new bona fide customers at its own expense , other than to serve
   subdivisions, tracts , housing projects , industrial developments or organized
   commercial districts , when the required total length of main extension from
   the nearest existing utility facility is not in excess of fifty (50) feet per service
   connection.
2. Advances - If the total length of main extension is in excess of fifty (50) feet
   per service connection applied for , the applicant or applicants for such service
   shall be required to advance to the utility, before construction is commenced
   that portion of the estimated reasonable cost of such extension which exceeds
   the estimated reasonable cost of 50 feet of the main extension per service
   connection , exclusive of the cost of service pipes , meter boxes and meters.
   Such estimated reasonable cost shall be based upon the cost of a main not in
   excess of six (6) inches in diameter except where a larger main is required by
   the special needs of the applicant or applicants. The amount of the advance is
   subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section A. e. of
   this Rule.

3. Refunds - The money so advanced shall be refunded by the utility, in cash
   without interest , in payments equal to the adjusted construction cost of fifty
   (50) feet of the main extension for which advance was made , for each
   additional service connection made to said main extension exclusive of that of
    any customer formerly served in a reasonable manner at the same location.
    At the request of the applicant, refunds shall be made within 180 days after
    the date of first service to a bona fide customer. If no request is received
    from applicant the utility shall , initiate refunds on an annual basis. No refunds
    shall be made , after a period of ten (10) years from the date of completion of
    the main extension and , the total refund shall not exceed the amount
    advanced.
4. Exceptions - Where a group of five (5) or more individual applicants requests
    service from the same extension , or in unusual cases after obtaining
    Commission authorization , the utility, at its option , may require that the
    individual or individuals advance the entire cost of the main extension as
    herein provided and the utility shall refund this advance as provided in
    Section c.2. of this Rule.
C. EXTENSIONS TO SERVE SUBDIVISIONS, TRACTS, HOUSING
   PROJECTS INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS OR ORGANIZED
   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
 1. Advances-
    a. Unless the procedure outlined in Section C. 1.c. is followed , an applicant
        for a main extension to serve a new subdivision , tract , housing project or
        industrial development or organized commercial district shall be required
        to advance to the utility, before construction is commenced , the
      estimated reasonable cost of the extension to be actually installed , from
      the nearest utility facility at least equal in size or capacity to the main
      required to serve both the new customers and a reasonable estimate of
      the potential customers who might be served directly from the main
      extension without additional extension. The costs of the extension shall
      include necessary service stubs , or service pipes , fittings, gates and
      housing therefore , and meter boxes , but shall not include meters. To this
      shall be added the cost of fire hydrants when requested by the applicant
      for the main extension or required by public authority, whenever such
      hydrants are to become the property of the utility.
  b. If , for any purpose , special facilities are required primarily for the service
      requested , the cost of such special facilities may be included in the
      advance , subject to refund , as hereinafter provided , along with refunds of
      the advance of the cost of the extension facilities described in Section
      c.1.a. above.

  c. In lieu of providing the advances in accordance with Sections c.1.a. and
        1.b. , the applicant for a main extension shall be permitted , if qualified in
      the judgment of the utility, to construct and install the facilities himself, or
      arrange for their installation pursuant to competitive bidding procedures
      initiated by him and limited to qualified bidders. The cost , including the
      cost of inspection and supervision by the utility, shall be paid directly by
      applicant. The applicant shall provide the utility with a statement of actual
      construction cost in reasonable detail. The amount to be treated as an
      advance subject to refund shall be the lesser of (1) the actual cost , or (2)
      the price quoted in the utility detailed cost estimate. The installation shall
      be in accordance with the plans and specifications submitted by the utility
      pursuant to Section A.4.
2. Refunds
   a. The amount advanced under Sections C. 1.a. , c.1.b. ; i and c.1.c. shall be
      subject to refund by the utility in cash , without interest , to the party or
      parties entitled thereto as set forth , in the following two paragraphs. The
      total amount so refunded shall not exceed the total of the amount
      advanced. Except as hereinafter provided , the refunds shall be made in
      annual , semiannual or quarterly payments at the election of the utility,
      and for a period not to exceed twenty (20) years after the date of the
      contract.
   b. Whenever costs of main extensions have been advanced pursuant to
      Sections c.1.a. or c.1.c. , the utility shall determine the revenue received
      from customers other than residential , including fire protection agencies
      supplied by service pipes connected directly to the extension for which the
      cost was advanced. The refund shall be 22 percent of the revenue so
      received. For residential customers connected directly to the extension for
      which the cost was advanced , the utility shall refund 22 percent of the
      average revenue per residential customer of the entire system for the
      immediately preceding 12- month period. (See Section c.2. d. and B.

   c. Whenever costs of special facilities have been advanced pursuant to
      Sections c.1.b. or c.1.c. , the amount so advanced shall be divided by the
       number of lots to be served by the special facilities. This advance per lot
      shall be refunded for each lot on which one or more bona fide customers
      are served by those facilities.
   d. With respect to a contract entered into on and after the effective date of
      this Rule , if, at any time during the 20- year refund period specified above
      80 percent of the bona fide customers for which the extension or special
      facilities were designed are being served therefrom , the utility shall
      immediately notify the contract holder of that fact , and at that time shall
      become obligated to pay, in cash , any balance which may remain
      unrefunded at the end of said 20- year period. Such balance shall be
      refunded in five (5) equal annual installments , payable beginning 21 years
      after the date of the contract.
   e. Where a contract has been entered into under a former main extension
       rule , and where 80 percent of the bona fide customers for which the
       extension or special facilities were designed are being served therefrom
       the utility may negotiate and enter into a new and substitute contract
       identical in all respects , with the original contract , including the original
       termination date, except that said substitute contract shall include the
       following provisions: " Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof , any
       unrefunded balance remaining at the termination date of this contract
       shall be paid in five (5) equal annual , installments beginning one (1) year
       after , said termination date.
3. Termination of Main Extension Contracts

   a. Any contract entered into under Section C of this Rule , or under similar
       provisions of former rules may be purchased by the utility and terminated
       after first obtaining the authorization of the Commission , at any time after
       the number of bona fide customers then receiving service from the
       extension for which the advance was made equals at least 60 percent of
       the total number of bona fide customers for which such extension was
       designed by the utility and the terms are otherwise mutually agreed to by
       the parties or their assignees and that , Section C.     b. and Section C.
       hereof are complied with.
   b. The utility, in requesting authorization for such termination shall furnish to
       the Commission the following information in writing by an advice letter in
       the event the termination is to be accomplished by payment in cash , or by
       a formal application:
           (1) A copy of the main extension contract , together with data
               adequately describing the development for which the advance was
               made and the total adjusted construction cost of the extension.
           (2) The balance unpaid on the contract , as above defined , as of the
               date of termination and terms under which the obligation is
               requested to be terminated.
           (3) The name of the holder of the contract when terminated.
           (4) The total number of bona fide customers for which the extension
               was designed and the number of bona fide customers actually
               receiving service on said extension as of the proposed date of
               contract.
    c. Discounts obtained by the utility for contracts terminated under the
       provisions of this Section shall be accounted for by credits to Account 265
       - Contributions in Aid of Construction.
