                                                ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE REPEALING ADA COUNTY CODE TITLE 8, ENTITLED THE ADA
COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE, IN ITS ENTIRETY AND ENACTING A NEW ADA
COUNTY CODE TITLE 8, TO BE KNOWN AS THE ADA COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE;
PROVIDING FOR GENERAL PROVISIONS INCLUDING THE PURPOSE, SCOPE,
AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY, RESOLVING CONFLICTING PROVISIONS, MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS, AN ENACTMENT DATE AND A SEVERABILITY AND SAVINGS
CLAUSE; PROVIDING FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT AND REGULATION OF BASE
ZONING DISTRICTS, PLANNED COMMUNITY STANDARDS, ESTABLISHMENT OF A
ZONING MAP, DEVELOPMENT AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS, PERMITTED USES
IN ZONING DISTRICTS, ESTABLISHMENT AND REGULATION OF OVERLAY
DISTRICTS; PROVIDING FOR DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR ACCESS, BUILDING
DESIGN, INFRASTRUCTURE, FENCING, LANDSCAPING, SCREENING, OPEN SPACE
PARKING, PRIVATE ROADS AND SIGNS FOR USES IN BASE AND OVERLAY ZONING
DISTRICTS; PROVIDING FOR ADDITIONAL USE STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC LISTED
USES; PROVIDING FOR STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS OF PROPERTY; PROVIDING
REGULATIONS FOR PROCESSING VARIOUS ZONING APPLICATIONS INCLUDING
PREAPPLICATION AND NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS, PUBLIC NOTICE AND
HEARING REQUIREMENTS; PROVIDING FOR RULES FOR NONCONFORMING
PROPERTY AND/OR STRUCTURES; PROVIDING FOR ADMINISTRATION OF THE
ZONING ORDINANCE BY THE COUNTY; PROVIDING FOR RULES OF
INTERPRETATION OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE AND DEFINITIONS OF ZONING
ORDINANCE TERMS; PROVIDING THE ESTABLISHMENT AND REGULATION OF
PLANNED COMMUNITY SUBAREA DEVELOPMENT; PROVIDING FOR THE
RECODIFICATION OF THE REGULATIONS FOR THE PLANNED COMMUNITIES OF
AVIMOR, CARTWRIGHT RANCH, DRY CREEK RANCH; AND HIDDEN SPRINGS;
PROVIDING FOR ENFORCEMENT OF VIOLATIONS OF THE ZONING ORDINANCE TO
BE A MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT NOT EXCEEDING SIX
MONTHS OR BY A FINE NOT EXCEEDING $1,000 OR BY BOTH IMPRISONMENT AND
FINE.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF ADA COUNTY,
IDAHO, THAT ADA COUNTY CODE TITLE 8, IS REPEALED IN ITS ENTIRETY AND A
NEW ADA COUNTY CODE TITLE 8, IS ENACTED TO BE KNOWN AS THE ADA COUNTY
ZONING ORDINANCE AS FOLLOWS:

                   ADA COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE

                              CHAPTER 1
                        GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1:     TITLE
8-1-2:     PURPOSE
8-1-3:     SCOPE
8-1-4:     AUTHORITY


ORDINANCE NO.             - PAGE 1
8-1-5:          APPLICABILITY
8-1-6:          CONFLICTING PROVISIONS
8-1-7:          MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
8-1-8:          ENACTMENT, EFFECTIVE DATE, AND REPEAL
8-1-9:          SEVERABILITY AND SAVINGS CLAUSE
8-1-1:      Title
   A. This Title is known and cited as the Ada County Zoning Ordinance. The Ada County
      Zoning Ordinance is published by authority of the Board of Commissioners and kept up to
      date as provided in Section 1-1-3 of the County Code.
   B. Within this document, the Ada County Zoning Ordinance is referred to as "this Title" or
      the “Zoning Ordinance.”
8-1-2:      Purpose
   A. This Chapter establishes the zoning regulations for Ada County, Idaho. This Title:
         1. Fulfills the intent and purposes of the "Local Land Use Planning Act," Idaho Code
            Section 67-6501 et seq., as amended.
         2. Implements the policies of the applicable Comprehensive Plans by classifying and
            regulating the uses of property and structures within the unincorporated areas of Ada
            County.
         3. Establishes zoning districts within Ada County that comply with the adopted
            Comprehensive Plans in conformance with Idaho Code Section 67-6511.
         4. Provides standards for the orderly growth and development of Ada County. As required
            by Idaho Code Section 67-6511, these standards include those regulating:
            a. The height, number of stories, size, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
               or location of structures;
            b. Percentage of coverage, size of required yards, and density of residential dwellings;
               and
            c. The use of structures and property.
   B. Ensures appropriate use of properties.
   C. Protects property rights and enhances property values.
   D. Provides a method of administration and prescribes penalties for the violations of
      regulations authorized by the Constitution and laws of the State of Idaho.
8-1-3:      Scope
   A. This Title consists of the most recently adopted and amended zoning text, official zoning
      maps, and subdivision regulations. Copies are available for review at the Ada County
      Development Services Department. This Title and all its terms are to be read and
      interpreted with consideration to the designations of the official zoning maps (see Section
      8-2-4).
   B. This Title applies to any of the following in the unincorporated areas of Ada County:


ORDINANCE NO.                         - PAGE 2
         1. The height, number of stories, size, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or
            use of buildings and structures;
         2. The percentage of lot occupancy, size of courts, yards, and open spaces;
         3. The density of population;
         4. The location and use of buildings and structures;
         5. Any subdivision; and
         6. Standards for building or development.
8-1-4:      Authority
   A. This Title is adopted pursuant to:
         1. Article 12, Section 2 of the Idaho Constitution (local police regulations).
         2. Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65 (Local Land Use Planning Act).
         3. Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13 (Plats and Vacations).
8-1-5:      Applicability
   A. Compliance and Approval Required. No person or public agency shall construct, alter,
      move, or change the use of a structure or undertake any development or changes to the
      property unless:
         1. Such action complies with this Title.
         2. Any required approval is obtained as provided by Chapter 6 of this Title and any
            applicable conditions of approval are met.
   B. Permits Required. Nothing in this Title eliminates the need to obtain any other required
      permits, including:
         1. Building permits, plumbing, electrical, or mechanical permits, or
         2. Any permit or entitlement required by other titles of the County Code, other political
            subdivisions of the state of Idaho, or agencies of the state of Idaho.
   C. Unincorporated County Properties. All properties in unincorporated Ada County shall
      comply with this Title unless otherwise preempted by federal statute, state law, or local
      ordinance.
   D. Previous Violations. The violations that occurred under previous land use regulations and
      that remain a violation under this Title will continue until resolved.
   E. Project With Pending Application. All applications shall be processed and reviewed
      according to the ordinances and comprehensive plans in effect when the application is
      submitted.
   F. Approved Projects Not Yet Completed. Any approved application may be completed as
      provided by the approval.
8-1-6:      Conflicting Provisions
   A. If there is conflict between the text and the maps of this Title, the maps prevail.


ORDINANCE NO.                         - PAGE 3
    B. If conflicts occur between different regulations of this Title, or between this Title and other
       regulations of County Code, the most restrictive regulation applies. If there is a conflict
       between the Idaho Code and the County Code, the Idaho Code shall prevail.
    C. It is not intended that this Title interfere with, abrogate, or annul any easements, covenants,
       or other agreements between parties. However, where this Title imposes a greater
       restriction upon the use of structures or premises or upon the height of structures or requires
       larger space than is imposed or required by ordinances, rules, or regulations, or by
       easements, covenants, or agreements, the regulations of this Title govern.
8-1-7:      Minimum Requirements. When interpreting and applying the regulations of this Title,
all regulations are minimum requirements, unless stated otherwise. Proposed uses shall comply
with all applicable regulations and standards unless specifically exempt elsewhere in this Title.
8-1-8:      Enactment, Effective Date and Repeal. Upon the date of publication of this Title, this
Title repeals and replaces all previous zoning ordinances.
8-1-9:       Severability and Savings Clause. Should any section, clause, or regulation of this
Title be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not affect the
validity of this Title, or any part thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid; each section,
clause, or regulation hereof being declared severable.


                                            CHAPTER 2
                                       ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
8-2-1:          PURPOSE
8-2-2:          DISTRICT STRUCTURE
8-2-3:          DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
8-2-4:          ZONING MAP
8-2-5:          RURAL PRESERVATION (RP)
8-2-6:          RURAL RESIDENTIAL (RR)
8-2-7:          RURAL URBAN TRANSITION (RUT)
8-2-8:          SOUTHWEST COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL (RSW)
8-2-9:          ESTATE RESIDENTIAL (R1)
8-2-10:         LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R2)
8-2-11:         MEDIUM LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R4)
8-2-12:         MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R6)
8-2-13:         MEDIUM HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R8)
8-2-14:         HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R12)
8-2-15:         VERY HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (R20)
8-2-16:         LIMITED OFFICE (LO)
8-2-17:         NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL (C1)
8-2-18:         COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL (C2)
8-2-19:         LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (M1)
8-2-20:         GENERAL INDUSTRIAL (M2)
8-2-21:         AIRPORT INDUSTRIAL (M3)
8-2-22:         PLANNED COMMUNITY (PC)


ORDINANCE NO.                          - PAGE 4
 8-2-23:       USE TABLE
 8-2-24:       BOISE AIR TERMINAL AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREAS (BAT) OVERLAY
               DISTRICT
 8-2-25:       WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE (WUI) OVERLAY DISTRICT
 8-2-26:       SOUTHWEST PLANNING AREA (SPA) OVERLAY DISTRICT
 8-2-27:       AREA OF MILITARY INFLUENCE (AMI) OVERLAY DISTRICT
 8-2-28:       FLOOD HAZARD (FH) OVERLAY DISTRICT
 8-2-29:       BOISE RIVER GREENWAY (BRG) OVERLAY DISTRICT
 8-2-30:       HILLSIDE (HS) OVERLAY DISTRICT

 8-2-1:     Purpose. This Chapter establishes zoning districts and sets out permitted and
 conditional uses in each zoning district. The zoning districts are shown on the Zoning Map (see
 Section 8-2-4 [Zoning Map]).
 8-2-2:     District Structure
    A. Applicability. The use, erection, alteration, or relocation of any building, or a change in
       use or alteration of land, shall comply with the regulations for the zoning district where
       that building, or land is located.
    B. Permitted and Conditional Uses. Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table) establishes
       uses which are permitted, specially authorized, and prohibited in each zoning district.
    C. Dimensional Standards. Each zoning district includes dimensional standards, including
       density, setback, and building height. These are defined in Chapter 10 of this Title and
       summarized below:

 Table 8-2-2-1 Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards

Note: See Chapter 10 for definitions of the terms below.
Density and Development
       Density Density is expressed as gross density (see Chapter 10) unless otherwise indicated.
                Although maximum densities are listed, they are not guaranteed and are
                determined based on a variety of factors. Permitted densities may or may not be
                achievable on every lot in a given district due to specific site constraints of
                particular parcels or lots.
      Lot Area This is a minimum (in square feet or acreage) for the entire lot where a lot area
                standard applies.
 Lot Coverage This is the maximum percentage (in square feet or acreage) of the lot covered by
                all improvements where a lot coverage standard applies.
    Lot Depth This is a minimum (in feet) for the entire lot where a lot depth standard applies.
    Lot Width This is a minimum (in feet) for the entire lot where a lot width standard applies.
Building Area This is expressed as the maximum per building, in gross floor area (gfa). The
                building area is determined using the methodology established in the Ada
                County Building Code.




 ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 5
     Building Building height shall be measured as the vertical distance from the average
       Height contact ground level at the front wall of a building to the highest point of the
               coping of a flat roof, the deck line of a mansard roof, or the average height of the
               highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
    Common These are open or civic space requirements calibrated to the district’s character.
Open or Civic
        Space
     Setbacks Note: Chapter 3 explains the relationship between setbacks and related standards such as
               landscaping and buffers.
Front Setback The minimum required distance between the front property line and nearest
               structure.
   Side Street The minimum required distance between the side street property line and nearest
      Setback structure.
 Interior Side The minimum required distance between the side property line and nearest
      Setback structure.
 Rear Setback The minimum required distance between the rear property line and nearest
               structure.

 8-2-3:      Districts Established
    A. Generally. Table 8-2-3-1 (Zoning Districts):
          1. Establishes the zoning districts for the County;
          2. Associates the districts to the future land use designations from the Ada County
             Comprehensive Plan that each district implements; and
          3. Translates the former zoning districts from the zoning districts in the predecessor Base
             District Regulations and Overlay Districts to the new zoning districts in this Title.

 Table 8-2-3-1 Zoning Districts

                                              Base Districts
                                                                        Rural Preservation (RP)
                        Rural
                                                                        Rural Residential (RR)
                                                                     Rural Urban Transition (RUT)
                     Transitional
                                                                Southwest Community Residential (RSW)
                                                                        Estate Residential (R1)
                                                                     Low Density Residential (R2)
                                                                 Medium Low Density Residential (R4)
                     Residential                                   Medium Density Residential (R6)
                                                                 Medium High Density Residential (R8)
                                                                    High Density Residential (R12)
                                                                  Very High Density Residential (R20)
                                                                          Limited Office (LO)
                     Commercial                                     Neighborhood Commercial (C1)
                                                                     Community Commercial (C2)




 ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 6
                                                   Base Districts
                                                                                 Light Industrial (M1)
                     Industrial                                                 General Industrial (M2)
                                                                                Airport Industrial (M3)
                Planned Communities                                            Planned Communities (PC)
                                                 Overlay Districts
                                  Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas (BAT)
                                       Wildland – Urban Fire Interface (WUI)
                                          Southwest Planning Area (SPA)
                                          Area of Military Influence (AMI)
                                                Flood Hazard (FH)
                                            Boise River Greenway (BRG)
                                                   Hillside (HS)


8-2-4:     Zoning Map
   A. Zoning Map Adopted. Zoning districts are shown on the map entitled "Zoning Map" of
      the County of Ada. An official copy of the map is on file and available for inspection during
      regular business hours at the Development Services Office.
   B. Force and Effect. The Zoning Map, together with all legends, references, symbols,
      boundaries, and other information, is part of, and has the same force of law, as the text of
      this Title.
   C. Status of the Zoning Map. The Zoning Map controls if there is a conflict between the
      Zoning Map that is on file and any other paper or digital reproduction of the Zoning Map.
         1. Base Zoning Districts. All property within the County has an associated base zoning
            district. A base zoning district applies a uniform set of standards, including:
            a. Permitted, conditional, and prohibited uses;
            b. Development standards; and
            c. Use regulations.
   D. Overlay Districts. Overlay districts apply only to certain areas within the jurisdiction of
      this Title, as shown on the Zoning Map. They establish additional standards that
      supplement the base districts.
   E. Interpreting the Zoning Map. Refer to Section 8-10-1 of this Title (General Rules of
      Interpretation) for criteria and procedures for interpreting the boundaries depicted on the
      Zoning Map.
8-2-5:      Rural Preservation (RP)R
   A. Purpose. The Rural Preservation (RP) District promotes the public health, safety, and
      welfare of the people of Ada County by encouraging the protection of prime agricultural
      lands; ensures the important environmental features of the state and Ada County are
      protected and enhanced; and protects fish, wildlife, and recreation resources, consistent
      with the purposes of the “Local Land Use Planning Act,” Idaho Code Section 67-6501 et
      seq., by:



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 7
     1. Implementing the Ada County Comprehensive Plan goal to protect prime agricultural
        land and to maximize opportunities for agricultural activities and an agricultural
        lifestyle in areas designated as rural areas on the Comprehensive Plan Future Land Use
        Map;
     2. Allowing the development of agricultural industries and agriculture service
        establishments when such uses do not take prime agricultural land out of crop
        production;
     3. Protecting agricultural and rangeland uses and wildlife management areas from undue
        adverse impacts from adjacent development;
     4. Permitting the development of schools, churches, and other public and quasi-public
        uses in rural areas consistent with the applicable Comprehensive Plan;
     5. Directing more intense development to occur within the residential, transitional,
        commercial, and industrial base districts, as defined in Table 8-2-3-1, and the planned
        community base district; and
     6. Accommodating the continued use of agricultural lands, rangelands, and wildlife
        management areas, within the Boise front foothills (in areas designated as the foothills
        planning area in the Boise City Comprehensive Plan and the Ada County
        Comprehensive Plan).
     7. Limiting development of hazardous areas, including, but not limited to, fault lines,
        landslides, subsidence, shallow soils, steep slopes, unstable slopes, flooding, and seeps,
        and allow a limited number of uses with significant space requirements or buffering
        needs on non-prime agricultural lands.
  B. Development and Dimensional Standards
     1. All development shall be in accord with the regulations in Chapter 3 of this Title.
     2. Institutional uses (including church, group day care facility, portable classroom, public
        or quasi-public use, and school, public or private) which are proposed within rural base
        districts, shall be permitted an increase of the maximum coverage from ten percent
        (10%) to twenty-five percent (25%).
     3. Stable or riding arena, commercial, which is proposed within rural base districts, shall
        be permitted an increase of the maximum coverage from ten percent (10%) to twenty-
        five percent (25%).




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 8
    Table 8-2-5-1 Rural Preservation (RP) Dimensional Standards




      Density and Development                                                      Base         Rural Residence
1     Lot Size (acreage)                                                          40 (min)        1 (min), 2.5 (max)
2     Building Height (max feet)                                                    35’                  35’
3     Lot Coverage (max percentage)                                                10%                  20%
4     Street Frontage (min feet)                                                   100’                 100’
      Setbacks                                                                     Base         Rural Residence
5     Front Yard Setback (min-feet)
               Arterial, collector, or section line street                          50’                  50’
               Other roadway                                                        30’                  30’
               Property line not fronting a roadway (for rural residences, side
               property line setback of 10’ is allowed adjacent to other rural      25’                  25’
               residences)
6     Side Setback (min)                                                            25’                  25’
7     Rear Setback (min)                                                            25’                  25’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally permitted
unit per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2 1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See
Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.

        C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).
        D. Farm Development Rights
            1. Purpose. This regulation allows owners of a qualifying property in the Rural
               Preservation (RP) District to create one residential parcel for conveyance.
            2. Applicability. This subsection applies to any property that meets all of the following
               criteria:
                 a. The property is within the Rural Preservation (RP) District;
                 b. The property is at least forty (40) acres of contiguous land; and



    ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 9
        c. The property was of record in the Ada County Recorder’s office as of January 1,
           1985 (hereinafter referred to as the “property of record”), the boundaries of which
           shall not have changed except as the result of a governmental action. (See Section
           8-3-2M of this Title.)
     3. Development Rights
        a. The property of record is entitled to a maximum of one farm development right.
        b. For the purposes of this Title, parcels approved prior to the effective date of this
           Title, subject to the one-acre lot regulations or one acre parcel regulations, are
           considered farm development rights.
        c. If the qualifying property is decreased below the minimum property size as a result
           of granting the farm development rights, the remainder of the qualifying property
           is still considered a conforming property.
     4. Process
        a. Application: Applications shall be submitted on forms provided by the
           Development Services Department as set forth in Section 8-6-5 of this Title.
        b. Tentative Approval; Requirements: Upon tentative approval by the Director
           subject to Section 8-6-6 of this Title, the following tasks shall be completed within
           one year:
           1. Cause the property to be surveyed. Before recording, submit to the Director
              draft copies of the record of survey and resultant parcel descriptions for review;
           2. Record the record of survey and the necessary executed deeds with the Ada
              County Recorder to accomplish the farm development right parcel as approved;
           3. Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County Assessor; and
           4. Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds, and the new
              tax parcel numbers to the Director.
        c. Issuance of Approval Letter: The Director shall determine if all conditions of
           approval have been met and that the farm development right parcel conforms with
           this Section before final approval letter is issued.
     5. Standards
        a. The farm development right parcel shall meet the dimensional standards for a rural
           residence as established by Table 8-2-5-1 of this Section.
        b. Access and frontage shall be as required by Section 8-3-3 of this Title.
        c. If the qualifying property has more than one permanent dwelling, the farm
           development right parcel shall contain one of the extra dwellings. This standard
           does not apply to temporary living quarters.
        d. The proposed farm development right division shall maximize to the greatest extent
           possible the preservation of prime agricultural soils.
        e. The farm development right parcel shall be located on the portion of the property
           that causes the least disruption of agriculture on the remainder of the qualifying

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 10
                property while still meeting the standards of this Section.
         6. Required Findings. The Director shall make the following findings to approve, or
            approve with conditions, the farm development right:
            a. The proposed farm development right meets the applicability requirements of
               subsection D.2 of this Section; and
            b. The proposed farm development right complies with standards of subsection D.5
               of this Section.
8-2-6:      Rural Residential (RR)
   A. Purpose. The Rural Residential (RR) District promotes the public health, safety, and
      welfare of the people of Ada County by encouraging the protection of prime agricultural
      lands; ensuring the important environmental features of the state and Ada County are
      protected and enhanced; and protecting fish, wildlife, and recreation resources, consistent
      with the purposes of the "Local Land Use Planning Act," Idaho Code Section 67-6501 et
      seq., by:
         1. Implementing the Ada County Comprehensive Plan goal to protect prime agricultural
            land and to maximize opportunities for agricultural activities and an agricultural
            lifestyle in areas designated as rural areas on the Comprehensive Plan Future Land Use
            Map;
         2. Allowing the development of agricultural industries and agriculture service
            establishments when such uses do not take prime agricultural land out of crop
            production;
         3. Protecting agricultural and rangeland uses and wildlife management areas from undue
            adverse impacts from adjacent development;
         4. Permitting the development of schools, churches, and other public and quasi-public
            uses in rural areas consistent with the applicable Comprehensive Plan;
         5. Directing more intense development to occur within residential, transitional,
            commercial, and industrial base districts, as defined in Table 8-2-3-1, and the planned
            community base district; and
         6. Permitting low density residential uses that would provide a rural lifestyle, and that do
            not require excessive expansion of public services.
   B. Development and Dimensional Standards
         1. All development shall be in accord with the regulations in Chapter 3 of this Title.
   C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 11
    Table 8-2-6-1 Rural Residential (RR) Dimensional Standards




      Density and Development                                                     Base          Rural Residence
1     Lot Size (acreage)                                                                 10       1 (min), 2.5 (max)
2     Building Height (max feet)                                                         35’             35’
3     Lot Coverage (max percentage)                                                  10%                20%
4     Street Frontage (min feet)                                                     100’               100’
      Setbacks                                                                    Base          Rural Residence
5     Front Yard Setback (min-feet)
               Arterial, collector, or section line street                               50’             50’
               Other roadway                                                             30’             30’
               Property line not fronting a roadway (for rural residences, side
               property line setback of 10’ is allowed adjacent to other rural           25’             25’
               residences)
6     Side Street Setback (min)                                                          30’             25’
7     Interior Side Setback (min)                                                        25’             25’
8     Rear Setback (min)                                                                 25’             25’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally permitted
unit per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See
Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.

    8-2-7:       Rural Urban Transition (RUT)
       A. Purpose. The Rural Urban Transition (RUT) District promotes the public health, safety,
          and welfare of Ada County by accommodating single-family residential and limited
          agricultural, commercial, and industrial uses within areas of city impact (ACIs). Although
          low density development mostly characterizes this district, redevelopment should
          accommodate higher density development when urban public facilities are extended. This
          district provides development patterns to achieve the desired Rural Urban Transition by:
             1. Providing standards and regulations for the development of property within areas of
                city impact, consistent with the goals and policies of the applicable city Comprehensive
                Plan;


    ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 12
            2. Allowing agriculture and rural residential uses to continue within areas of city impact
               until urban public facilities are extended;
            3. Providing standards and regulations that shall permit redevelopment of property to
               higher densities when urban public facilities are extended; and
            4. Limiting new agricultural uses within the areas of city impact to those that shall not
               significantly impact nearby urbanizing areas with noise, odor, dust, or other nuisances
               normally related to more intensive farm uses, such as livestock confinement facilities
               with three hundred one (301) or more animal units. This Title, however, shall in no way
               preclude the continued use of properties within these areas for agriculture.
       B. Development and Dimensional Standards
    Table 8-2-7-1 Rural Urban Transition (RUT) Dimensional Standards




       Density and Development                                                           Base       Rural Residence
1      Lot Size (min)                                                                    5 acres   1 acre (min) to 2.5 acres
                                                                                                            (max)
2      Lot Coverage (max)                                                                 20%                20%
3      Building Height (max)                                                               35’               35’
4      Street Frontage (min)                                                              250’               100’
       Setbacks                                                                          Base       Rural Residence
5      Front Setback (min)
                 Arterial or Collector Street                                             30’                30’
                  Local street or private road                                                               25’
                       (for rural residences, side property line setback of 10’ is        25’
                       allowed adjacent to other rural residences)
                 If providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear garage (min)    25’                20’
6      Interior Side Setback                                                              25’                15’
7      Rear Setback (min)                                                                 25’                25’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally permitted
use per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See
Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.

       C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).




    ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 13
8-2-8:       Southwest Community Residential (RSW)
     A. Purpose. The Southwest Community Residential (RSW) District promotes the public
        health, safety, and welfare of Ada County by accommodating single-family residential and
        limited agricultural uses within the Southwest Planning Area. Although low density
        development mostly characterizes this district, redevelopment should accommodate higher
        density development when urban public facilities are extended. This district provides
        conventional and cluster development patterns to achieve the appropriate Southwest
        Community Residential characteristics by:
         1. Implementing the Boise City Comprehensive Plan for the Southwest Planning Area.
            After the effective date of this Title, rezones to designate additional land "southwest
            community residential" shall not be approved;
         2. Allowing agriculture and rural residential uses to continue within areas of city impact
            until urban public facilities are extended.
     B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-8-1 Southwest Community Residential (RSW) Dimensional Standards




      Density and Development                                                                  Base       Rural Residence
 1    Lot Size (min)                                                                          2.5 acres   1 acre (min) to 2.5 acres
                                                                                                                   (max)
 2    Lot Coverage (max)                                                                           20%              20%
 3    Building Height (max)                                                                         35’             35’
 4    Street Frontage (min)                                                                        250’             100’
      Setbacks                                                                              Base              Rural Residence
 5    Front Setback (min)
                 Arterial or Collector Street                                                      30’              30’
                 Local street or private road                                                                       25’
                      (for rural residences, side property line setback of 10’ is allowed          25’
                      adjacent to other rural residences)
                 Front Setback if providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear                             20’
                                                                                                   25’
                 garage (min)
 6    Interior Side Setback                                                                        25’              15’
 7    Rear Setback (min)                                                                           25’              25
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally permitted
use per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See
Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 14
      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).
 8-2-9:         Estate Residential (R1)
      A. Purpose. The Estate Residential (R1) District promotes the public health, safety, and
         welfare of Ada County by implementing the applicable comprehensive plans within areas
         of city impact. Residential development shall be based on the availability of urban public
         facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan designation. This
         district primarily includes single-family detached residences developed at densities lower
         than typically found in urban and suburban areas.
      B. Development and Dimensional Standards
 Table 8-2-9-1 Estate Residential (R1) Dimensional Standards




Density and Development
1        Lot Size (min)                                                                                     1 acre
2        Lot Coverage (max)                                                                                 35%
3        Building Height (max)                                                                              35’
4        Street Frontage                                                                                    100’
Setbacks
5        Front Setback (min)
         Arterial or Collector Street                                                                        30’
         Local street or private road                                                                        25’
                      If providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear garage (min)                  20’
6       Interior Side Setback (min)                                                                          10’
7       Side Setback from Local Street or Private Road (min; if vehicle access is restricted on the local
                                                                                                             20’
        street or private road, a setback of 15’ is permitted)
8       Rear Setback (min)                                                                                   20’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally permitted
use per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See
Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.




 ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 15
       C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).
  8-2-10:        Low Density Residential (R2)
       A. Purpose. The Low Density Residential (R2) District promotes the public health, safety,
          and welfare of Ada County by implementing the applicable comprehensive plans within
          areas of city impact. Residential development shall be based on the availability of urban
          public facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan
          designation. This district primarily accommodates single-family and low intensity multi-
          family residences developed outside of commercial areas.
       B. Development and Dimensional Standards
  Table 8-2-10-1 Low Density Residential (R2) Dimensional Standards




Density and Development
1       Lot Size (min)                                                                                       16,000 sf
2       Lot Coverage (max)                                                                                     N/A
3       Building Height (max)                                                                                   35’
4       Street Frontage                                                                                         75’
Setbacks
5       Front Setback (min)
        Arterial or Collector Street                                                                        30’
        Local street or private road                                                                        25’
                      If providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear garage (min)                 20’
6       Interior Side Setback (min)                                                                          5’
7       Side Setback from Local Street or Private Road (min; if vehicle access is restricted on the local
                                                                                                            20’
        street or private road, a setback of 15’ is permitted)
8       Rear Setback (min)                                                                                  20’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally permitted
use per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See
Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.

       C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).


  ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 16
8-2-11:            Medium Low Density Residential (R4)
   A. Purpose. The Medium Low Density Residential (R4) District promotes the public health,
      safety, and welfare of Ada County by implementing the applicable comprehensive plans
      within areas of city impact. Residential development shall be based on the availability of
      urban public facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan
      designation. This district primarily accommodates single-family and low intensity multi-
      family residences developed outside of commercial areas.
   B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-11-1 Medium Low Density Residential (R4) Dimensional Standards




Density and Development
1       Lot Size (min)                                                                          8,000 sf
2       Lot Coverage (max)                                                                        N/A
3       Building Height (max)                                                                     35’
4       Street Frontage                                                                           60’
Setbacks
5       Front Setback (min)
        Arterial or Collector Street                                                              20’
        Local street or private road                                                              20’
                      If providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear garage (min)       15’
6       Interior Side Setback (min)                                                                5’
7       Side Setback from Local Street or Private Road                                            15’
8       Rear Setback (min)                                                                        15’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally
permitted use per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional
Standards). See Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary
Dwelling Units.

   C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 17
    8-2-12:      Medium Density Residential (R6)
       A. Purpose. The Medium Density Residential (R6) District promotes the public health, safety,
          and welfare of Ada County by implementing the applicable comprehensive plans within
          areas of city impact. Residential development shall be based on the availability of urban
          public facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan
          designation. The Medium Density Residential (R6) District primarily accommodates
          single-family detached and attached residences, duplexes, zero lot line homes, and
          townhomes. A limited degree of multi-unit houses may be developed with moderate
          density adjacent to commercial uses. This district provides housing diversity at appropriate
          scales for a suburban context.
       B. Development and Dimensional Standards
    Table 8-2-12-1 Medium Density Residential (R6) Dimensional Standards




Density and Development
1        Lot Size per dwelling unit (min)                                                                 6,000 sf
2        Lot Coverage (max)                                                                                 N/A
3        Building Height (max)                                                                              35’
4       Street Frontage (min)                                                                               60’
Setbacks
5        Front Setback (min)
                    Arterial or Collector Street                                                            20’
                    Local street or private road                                                            20’
6                   Front Setback if providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear garage (min)     10’
7        Interior Side Setback (min)                                                                         5’
8       Side Setback from Local Street or Private Road                                                      15’
9        Rear Setback (min)                                                                                 15’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is in addition to the principally permitted use per
Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See Chapter 4
(Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.

      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).




    ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 18
8-2-13:       Medium High Density Residential (R8)
     A. Purpose. The Medium High Density Residential (R8) District promotes the public health,
        safety, and welfare of Ada County by implementing the applicable comprehensive plans
        within areas of city impact. Residential development shall be based on the availability of
        urban public facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan
        designation. The Medium High Density Residential (R8) District primarily accommodates
        single-family detached and attached residences, duplexes, zero lot line homes, and
        townhomes. A limited degree of multi-family residences may be developed with moderate
        density adjacent to commercial uses. This district provides housing diversity at appropriate
        scales for a suburban context.
     B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-13-1 Medium Density Residential (R8) Dimensional Standards




Density and Development
 1        Lot Size per dwelling unit (min)                                                                  5,000 sf
 2        Lot Coverage (max)                                                                                  N/A
 3        Building Height (max)                                                                               35’
 4        Street Frontage                                                                                     45’
Setbacks
 5        Front Setback (min)
                      Arterial or Collector Street                                                                20’
                      Local street or private road                                                                20’
 6                    Front Setback if providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear garage (min)         10’
 7        Interior Side Setback (min)                                                                              5’
 8        Side Setback from Local Street or Private Road                                                          15’
 9        Rear Setback (min)                                                                                      15’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally permitted
use per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See
Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.

     C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 19
8-2-14:       High Density Residential (R12)
     A. Purpose. The High Density Residential (R12) District promotes the public health, safety,
        and welfare of Ada County by implementing the applicable comprehensive plans within
        areas of city impact. Residential development shall be based on the availability of urban
        public facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan
        designation. The High Density Residential (R12) District accommodates a mixture of
        housing types from single-family attached to multi-family dwellings and is higher in
        density. This district is designed to be located along arterial streets, near transit locations,
        and within proximity to activity centers where residents can enjoy a mix of supporting uses.
        This district provides housing diversity at appropriate scales within the County’s residential
        development context.
     B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-14-1 High Density Residential (R12) Dimensional Standards




Density and Development
1        Lot Size per dwelling unit (min)                                                                   3,500 sf
2        Lot Coverage (max)                                                                                   N/A
3        Building Height (max)                                                                                40’
4        Street Frontage                                                                                      45’
Setbacks
 5        Front Setback (min)
                      Arterial or Collector Street                                                            20’
                      Local street or private road                                                            15’
 6                    Front Setback if providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear garage (min)     10’
 7        Interior Side Setback (min)                                                                          3’
 8        Side Setback from Local Street or Private Road                                                      10’
 9        Rear Setback (min)                                                                                  10’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional Farm
Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the principally permitted
use per Table 8-2-23-2. See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See
Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types, such as Secondary Dwelling Units.

     C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 20
8-2-15:       Very High Density Residential (R20)
     A. Purpose. The Very High Density Residential (R20) District promotes the public health,
        safety, and welfare of Ada County by implementing the applicable comprehensive plans
        within areas of city impact. Residential development shall be based on the availability of
        urban public facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan
        designation. The Very High Density Residential (R20) District accommodates a mixture
        of housing types from single-family attached to multi-family dwellings and is the highest
        density district. This district is designed to be located along arterial streets, near transit
        locations, and within proximity to activity centers where residents can enjoy a mix of
        supporting uses. This district provides housing diversity at appropriate scales within the
        County’s residential development context.
     B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-15-1 Very High Density Residential (R20) Dimensional Standards




Density and Development
 1        Lot Size (min)                                                                                    2,000 sf
 2        Lot Coverage (max)                                                                                  N/A
 3        Building Height (max)                                                                               40’
 4        Street Frontage                                                                                     45’
Setbacks
 5      Front Setback (min)

                     Arterial or Collector Street                                                             20’
                     Local street or private road                                                             15’
 6                    Front Setback if providing alley access, a side loaded garage, or rear garage (min)      5’
 7        Interior Side Setback (min)                                                                          0’
 8        Side Setback from Local Street or Private Road                                                       5’
 9        Rear Setback (min)                                                                                  10’
NOTES: Only one dwelling unit is allowed per parcel, except that one Secondary Dwelling Unit, one Additional
Farm Dwelling, one Caretaker Dwelling, or one Temporary Living Quarters is allowed in addition to the
principally permitted use per Table 8-2-23-2. Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of
Dimensional Standards). See Chapter 4 (Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types,
such as Secondary Dwelling Units.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 21
      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).
8-2-16:       Limited Office (LO)
      A. Purpose. The Limited Office (LO) District promotes the public health, safety, and welfare
         of Ada County by encouraging commercial uses primarily inside areas of city impact to
         implement the applicable comprehensive plans that are adopted as part of the area of city
         impact agreements. The Limited Office (LO) District may also be established outside areas
         of city impact on a limited basis. The intent of this district is to provide separate and distinct
         allowed commercial uses based on the availability of urban public facilities, surrounding
         land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan designation for the area. This district
         provides administrative, professional, medical, and business office uses that complement
         the surrounding residential areas, accommodates the limited sale of convenience goods and
         personal services for daily living needs of the immediate neighborhood, limits larger
         developments to arterial streets away from intersections or gateway locations, and allows
         for limited housing options such as multi-family dwellings.
      B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-16-1 Limited Office (LO) Dimensional Standards




 Intensity and Development
 1       Building Height (max)                                                              35’
 2       Lot Coverage (max)                                                                 N/A
 3       Street Frontage (min)                                                              30’
Setbacks
 4       Front Yard Setback (min)                                                            20’
 5       Front Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                       20’
 6       Side Street Setback (min)                                                           20’
 7       Side Street Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                      20’
 8       Interior Side Setback (min)                                                         10’
 9       Interior Side Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                    10’
 10      Rear Yard Setback (min)                                                             10’
 11      Rear Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                        20’
 NOTES: See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See Chapter 4 (Use
 Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types.

      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 22
8-2-17:       Neighborhood Commercial (C1)
      A. Purpose. The Neighborhood Commercial (C1) District promotes the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Ada County by encouraging commercial uses primarily inside areas of city
         impact to implement the applicable comprehensive plans that are adopted as part of the
         area of city impact agreements. The Neighborhood Commercial (C1) District may also be
         established outside areas of city impact on a limited basis. The intent of this district is to
         provide separate and distinct allowed commercial uses based on the availability of urban
         public facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan designation
         for the area. The Neighborhood Commercial (C1) District accommodates the sale of
         convenience goods (such as a grocery store or pharmacy) and personal services (laundry,
         dry cleaning, etc.) for daily living needs of the immediate neighborhood, complements the
         surrounding residential and commercial uses by allowing for medical, legal, banking,
         insurance and similar professional office uses, and limits larger developments to arterial
         streets away from intersections or gateway locations.
      B. Development and Dimensional Standards.
Table 8-2-17-1 Neighborhood Commercial (C1) Dimensional Standards




Intensity and Development
 1       Building Height (max)                                                             35’
 2       Lot Coverage (max)                                                                N/A
 3       Street Frontage (min)                                                             30’
 Setbacks
 4       Front Yard Setback (min)                                                          15’
 5       Front Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                     20’
 6       Side Street Setback (min)                                                         10’
 7       Side Street Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                    15’
 8       Interior Side Setback (min)                                                        0’
 9       Interior Side Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                  10’
 10      Rear Yard Setback (min)                                                            0’
 11      Rear Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                      15’
 NOTES: See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See Chapter 4 (Use
 Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types.

      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 23
8-2-18:       Community Commercial (C2)
      A. Purpose. The Community Commercial (C2) District promotes the public health, safety,
         and welfare of Ada County by encouraging commercial uses primarily inside areas of city
         impact to implement the applicable comprehensive plans that are adopted as part of the
         area of city impact agreements. The Community Commercial (C2) District may also be
         established outside areas of city impact on a limited basis. The intent of this district is to
         provide separate and distinct allowed commercial uses based on the availability of urban
         public facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan designation
         for the area. The Community Commercial (C2) District accommodates areas for
         community shopping and clustered commercial activities along arterial streets and provides
         for the sale of a full range of merchandise and services required of persons living within
         several neighborhood service areas and rural trade areas, accommodates large-scale, high-
         intensity commercial structures, and limits large-scale, high-intensity developments to
         interstates and principal arterial roadways that serve the Treasure Valley.
      B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-18-1 Community Commercial (C2) Dimensional Standards




Intensity and Development
 1       Building Height (max)                                                             50’
 2       Lot Coverage (max)                                                               N/A
 3       Street Frontage (min)                                                            100’
Setbacks
 4       Front Yard Setback (min)                                                         15’
 5       Front Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                    25’
 6       Side Street Setback (min)                                                        20’
 7       Side Street Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                   25’
 8       Interior Side Setback (min)                                                      20’
 9       Interior Side Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                 35’
 10      Rear Yard Setback (min)                                                          20’
 11      Rear Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                     35’
NOTES: See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See Chapter 4 (Use
Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types.

      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 24
8-2-19:       Light Industrial (M1)
      A. Purpose. The Light Industrial (M1) District promotes the public health, safety, and welfare
         of Ada County by encouraging industrial uses primarily inside areas of city impact to
         implement the applicable comprehensive plans that are adopted as part of the area of city
         impact agreements. The Light Industrial (M1) District may also be established outside
         areas of city impact on a limited basis. The intent of this district is to provide separate and
         distinct allowed industrial uses based on the availability of urban public facilities,
         surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan designation for the area. The
         Light Industrial (M1) District accommodates areas for, and conducive to, light industrial
         uses and the development of technological industrial uses, supports light assembly,
         warehousing, administrative facilities, research institutions, and specialized manufacturing
         organizations, and accommodates professional offices and similar uses if they provide
         services to light industrial uses.
      B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-19-1 Light Industrial (M1) Dimensional Standards




Intensity and Development
 1       Building Height (max)                                                            50’
 2       Lot Coverage (max)                                                               N/A
 3       Street Frontage (min)                                                            30’
Setbacks
 4       Front Yard Setback (min)                                                         20’
 5       Front Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                    20’
 6       Side Street Setback (min)                                                        15’
 7       Side Street Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                   20’
 8       Interior Side Setback (min)                                                       0’
 9       Interior Side Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                 15’
 10      Rear Yard Setback (min)                                                           0’
 11      Rear Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                     15’
NOTES: See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See Chapter 4 (Use
Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types.

      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).
      D. Retail and Office Uses. The following uses (see Use Table for categories) may occupy
         up to ten percent (10%) of the gross floor area or fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet
         (whichever is less) of an industrial building in the M1 district:


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 25
          1. Retail Store;
          2. Personal Services; or
          3. Office.
8-2-20:       General Industrial (M2)
      A. Purpose. The General Industrial (M2) District promotes the public health, safety, and
         welfare of Ada County by encouraging industrial uses primarily inside areas of city impact
         to implement the applicable comprehensive plans that are adopted as part of the area of
         city impact agreements. The General Industrial (M2) District may also be established
         outside areas of city impact on a limited basis. The intent of this district is to provide
         separate and distinct allowed industrial uses based on the availability of urban public
         facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan designation for the
         area. The General Industrial (M2) District accommodates medium to high intensity
         industrial uses and provides for development with higher intensities than industrial
         developments in the Light Industrial (M1) District.
      B. Development and Dimensional Standards
Table 8-2-20-1 General Industrial (M2) Dimensional Standards




 Intensity and Development
 1       Building Height (max)                                                      50’
 2       Lot Coverage (max)                                                         N/A
 3       Street Frontage (min)                                                      30’
 Setbacks
 4       Front Yard Setback (min)                                                    20’
 5       Front Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                               20’
 6       Side Street Setback (min)                                                   15'
 7       Side Street Setback Abutting Residential (min)                              20’
 8       Interior Side Setback (min)                                                  0’
 9       Interior Side Setback Abutting Residential (min)                            15’
 10      Rear Yard Setback (min)                                                      0’
 11      Rear Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                                15’
NOTES: See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See Chapter 4
(Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types.

      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 26
8-2-21:      Airport Industrial (M3)
      A. Purpose. The Airport Industrial (M3) District promotes the public health, safety, and
         welfare of Ada County by encouraging industrial uses primarily inside areas of city impact
         to implement the applicable comprehensive plans that are adopted as part of the area of
         city impact agreements. The Airport Industrial (M1) District may also be established
         outside areas of city impact on a limited basis. The intent of this district is to provide
         separate and distinct allowed industrial uses based on the availability of urban public
         facilities, surrounding land uses, and the applicable comprehensive plan designation for the
         area. The Airport Industrial (M1) District accommodates industrial uses that are compatible
         with the safe operation of the Boise Air Terminal (Gowen Field). This district is intended
         for non-noise sensitive manufacturing, industrial, and commercial uses.
      B. Development and Dimensional Standards
          1. Any proposed use within the airport overlay district shall comply with the regulations
             of Section 8-2-24 of this Title.
Table 8-2-21-1 Airport Industrial (M3) Dimensional Standards




 Intensity and Development
 1         Building Height (max)                                                 50’
 2         Lot Coverage (max)                                                    N/A
 3         Street Frontage (min)                                                 30’
 Setbacks
 4         Front Yard Setback (min)                                               20’
 5         Front Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                          20’
 6         Side Street Setback (min)                                              15’
 7         Side Street Setback Abutting Residential (min)                         20’
 8         Interior Side Setback (min)                                             0’
 9         Interior Side Setback Abutting Residential (min)                       15’
 10        Rear Yard Setback (min)                                                 0’
 11        Rear Yard Setback Abutting Residential (min)                           15’
NOTES: See Section 8-2-2C, Table 8-2-2-1 (Summary / Description of Dimensional Standards). See Chapter 4
(Use Standards) for additional or supplemental standards for use types.

      C. Permitted Uses. Refer to Section 8-2-23 of this Chapter (Use Table).



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 27
8-2-22:       Planned Communities (PC)
   A. Purpose. This Section provides for master planned communities both within and outside
      areas of city impact in accord with the comprehensive plan. The Planned Community (PC)
      District allows small town or urban type development when urban public facilities and
      services can be provided, and pursuant to community specific subarea comprehensive plans
      and zoning regulations for each Planned Community.
   B. Generally
          1. Planned Communities follow the regulations specifically expressed in the Planned
             Communities Chapter 12 in this Title.
          2. Each Planned Community must be established on the official zoning map of Ada
             County.
          3. Specific overlay districts are designated for each Planned Community. Each Planned
             Community district regulation identifies distinct allowed uses, dimensional standards
             and regulations that are specific to each Planned Community.
8-2-23:       Use Table
          1. Purpose. The Use Table found in Table 8-2-23-2 of this Chapter establishes principal,
             conditional, accessory, and temporary uses permitted within each zoning district, and
             how they are permitted. Each use is defined in Chapter 10 (Definitions) of this Title.
Table 8-2-23-1 Use Table Legend
                 Meaning             Description
  Symbol
    P            Principal           A “P” in a zoning district column indicates that a principal use is principally
                 permitted use       permitted and shall be reviewed in accord with the applicable use standards in
                                     Chapter 4. These uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of this Title.
                                     Master site plan review (see Section 8-6-19) is required unless the use is [bracketed]
                                     (see below).
     C           Conditional Use     A “C” in a zoning district column indicates that a use requires conditional use
                                     review and approval (see Section 8-6-15). Master site plan review is required unless
                                     the use is [bracketed] (see below).
     []                              Master Site Plan review is not required.
     {}                              Partial Master Site Plan review is required (see Section 8-6-19B.3).
     A           Accessory Use       Permitted only if accessory to a principal use on the same property.
     T           Temporary Use       Applies to temporary uses (12 months or less) (see Section 8-4-73).
     *                               Administrative Application (see Section 8-6-2-1).
     1                               A Zoning Certificate is required (see Section 8-6-32).
     2                               A Zoning Certificate is not required.
                 Use not Permitted   A blank cell in a column indicates that a use is not permitted as a principal use in
                                     the zoning district.
          NOTES: The Use Table only establishes the principally permitted uses allowed in each zoning district.
          Accessory Uses are regulated by Chapter 4 (Use Standards).




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 28
     B. Standards Column. The "Use Standards" column provides a reference to associated
        standards for certain principal permitted uses, conditional uses, and accessory uses. Where
        "N/A" is in the column, there is no associated standard. Where a “Section number” is in
        the column, there are associated standards.
  Table 8-2-23-2 Use Table
                                                                                                                                         Use
     Proposed Use             Rural       Transition           Residential                        Commercial        Industrial
                                                                                                                                      Standards


                                           RUT    RSW            R2, R4   R6, R8   R12, R20
                             RP     RR                   R1                                   LO      C1   C2      M1    M2      M3


Residential
Dwelling, Single-Family
                            [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]      [P]      [P]      [P]                                                  N/A
Detached
Dwelling, Single-Family
                                                                 [P]      [P]      [P]                                                  N/A
Attached
Dwelling, Duplex            [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]      [P]      [P]      [P]                                                  N/A


Dwelling, Multi-Family                                                    C        P          C       C        C                       8-4-45


Manufactured Home           [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]                                                                             N/A
Manufactured Home
                                                         C       C        C        C                                                   8-4-41
Park
Lodging/Group Living
Bed and Breakfast
                            [C]    [C]    [C]    [C]    [C]     [C] [C] [C]                   [C]    [C]   [C]                         8-4-10
Establishment
Boarding House                                                                                [C]    [C]   [C]                          N/A

Continuing Care Facility     C      C      C      C      C       C        C        C          P       P        P                        N/A

Foster Home, Group          [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]      [P]      [P]      [P]                                                 8-4-30

Hotel/Motel                                                                                   C       C        P                       8-4-34

Recreational Vehicle Park                                                                             C        C                       8-4-60

Agriculture

Agricultural Service        {C}    {C}                                                                                                  N/A

Agricultural Use            [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]    [P]      [P]      [P]      [P]        [P]    [P]   [P]     [P]   [P]   [P]      N/A
Equestrian Stable/Event
                            [C]    [C]    [C]                                                                                           N/A
Facility
Livestock Confinement <
                            [P]1   [P]1   [P]    [P]    [P]      [P]      [P]                                                          8-4-38
300 AU
Livestock Confinement
                            {P}    {P}                                                                                                 8-4-38
301-999 AU
Livestock Confinement
                            {C}    {C}                                                                                                 8-4-38
1,000+ AU
Nursery, Wholesale          [P]    [P]    [P]                                                                      [P]   [P]   [P]     8-4-46
Seasonal Farmworker
                             C      C                                                                                                  8-4-66
Housing
Stable                      [P]*   [P]*   [P]*   [P]*   [P]*                                                                            N/A

Winery                       C      C      C                                                          C        C   P     P       P     8-4-80




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 29
                                                                                                                                Use
      Proposed Use          Rural    Transition        Residential                        Commercial       Industrial
                                                                                                                             Standards


                                      RUT   RSW          R2, R4   R6, R8   R12, R20
                           RP   RR                R1                                  LO      C1   C2      M1   M2      M3


Commercial/Office

Animal Services

Kennel, Commercial         C    C     C                                               C       C        C   C                  8-4-36

Veterinary Services        C    C     C     C     C                                   C       P        P   P                   N/A

Day Care

Family Day Care, Home      A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*                                                 8-4-18

Day Care, Group            A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*         A*     A*                               8-4-18

Day Care, Center                      C     C     C      C        C        C          C       P        P                      8-4-18

Financial Services

Financial Institution                                                                 P       P        P                       N/A
Food & Beverage
Sales/Service
Bar                                                                                   C       C        P                       8-4-9

Brewpub or Distillery                                                                         P        P                       8-4-9

Nightclub                                                                                     C        C                       8-4-9

Restaurant                                                                            C       P        P   C    C       C      N/A
Office, Business &
Professional
Office                                                                     C          P       P        P   P                   N/A
Personal / Business
Services
Personal Services                                                          C          C       P        P   P                  8-4-50

Postal Service                                                                        P       P        P   P    P       P     8-4-53

Retail sales

Auction                    C    C                                                                      C   C    C              8-4-7

Farm, Garden, Lumber,
                                                                                              P        P   P    P              N/A
or Building Supply Store

Fuel Sales                                                                                    C        P   P    P       P     8-4-28
Heavy Equipment Sales
                                                                                                       P   P    P       P     8-4-31
or Service
Nursery, Retail                 C     C                                                       P        P   P                  8-4-46

Retail Store                                                               C          C       P        P   P                   N/A

Automotive

Car Wash                                                                                      C        C   P    P       P     8-4-12

Vehicle Repair, Minor                                                                         C        P   P    P       P     8-4-79

Vehicle Repair, Major                                                                                  C   P    P       P     8-4-79




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 30
                                                                                                                                      Use
        Proposed Use           Rural     Transition        Residential                         Commercial        Industrial
                                                                                                                                   Standards


                                          RUT   RSW          R2, R4   R6, R8   R12, R20
                              RP   RR                 R1                                   LO      C1   C2      M1    M2      M3


Vehicle Sales                                                                                               P   P     C       C     8-4-79

Entertainment/Recreation
Adult Entertainment
                                                                                                            C   C                    8-4-3
Establishment
Amusement or
                                                                               C           C       C        P   C                    N/A
Recreation, Indoor
Amusement or
                                   C      C     C                                          C       C        P                        8-4-5
Recreation, Outdoor
Campground                    C    C                                                                                                8-4-11

Racetrack                     C    C                                                                        C                       8-4-58
Shooting Range (Indoor
                              C    C                                                               C        P   C     C       C     8-4-68
Only)
Shooting Range (Outdoor
                              C    C                                                                                                8-4-68
Only)
Civic

Assembly

Event Center                  C    C      C     C     C      C        C        C           C       C        C   C                   8-4-24

Religious Land Use            C    C      C     C     C      C        C        C           C       P        C                        N/A

Death Care Services

Cemetery                      C    C      C     C     C      C        C        C                                                    8-4-13

Crematory                                                                                  C       C        P   P                   8-4-16

Funeral Services                                                                           C       C    P1      P1                  8-4-29

Mortuary                                                                                  A*/C A*/C A*/C A*/C                       8-4-16

Government/Non-Profit
Public or Quasi-Public
                              C    C      C     C     C      C        C        C           C       C        C   C     C       C     8-4-57
Use
Education

School                        C    C      C     C     C      C        C        C           C       C        C                       8-4-65

Studio                                                                         C           C       P        P   P                    N/A

Technical School              C    C      C                                                C       P        P   P     P       P      N/A

Medical

Clinic (Dental or Medical)                                                                 P       P        P                        N/A

Medical Care Facility                                                                      C       P        P                       8-4-44

Industrial
Manufacturing &
Employment
Asphalt or Concrete
                             A*/C A*/C   C                                                                            P       C      8-4-6
Ready-Mix Plant
Contractor Yard               C    C      C                                                                     P     P       P     8-4-15



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 31
                                                                                                                                     Use
      Proposed Use                Rural     Transition        Residential                     Commercial        Industrial
                                                                                                                                  Standards


                                             RUT   RSW          R2, R4   R6, R8   R12, R20
                              RP      RR                 R1                                  LO   C1   C2      M1    M2      M3


Explosive Manufacturing
                              C                                                                                      P       C     8-4-25
or Storage
Foundry                                                                                                              P       P     8-4-26

Manufacturing, Heavy                                                                                                 P       C     8-4-39

Manufacturing, Light                                                                                       C   P     P       P     8-4-40
Meatpacking/
                              {C}     {C}                                                                            C             8-4-43
Slaughterhouse Facility
Pit, Mine, or Quarry,
                              C       C      C                                                                       C       C     8-4-51
Large
Processing Plant,
Agricultural and Dairy        {C}     {C}                                                                      P     P       P     8-4-55
Products
Research and
                              C       C      C                                                    C        C   P     P       P      N/A
Development Facility
Sawmill/Planing Mill          C                                                                                      P       C     8-4-64

Tannery                                                                                                              P             8-4-72
Wood, Metal, and Stone
                                                                                                           C   P     P       P      N/A
Shop
Warehousing, Storage &
Distribution
Energy Storage                C      C      C      C     C     C         C        C          C    C        C   C     C       C      N/A

Grain Elevator                [P]     [P]                                                                      [P]   [P]            N/A

Manufactured Home
                                                                                                               P     P       P     8-4-42
Storage

Storage Facility, Self-
                                                                         C        C          C    C        P   P     P       P     8-4-70
Service
Storage Facility, Self-
                              C       C      C                                                                 C     C       C     8-4-71
Service -Outdoor Only

Wholesale Distribution
                                                                                                               P     P       P      N/A
and Warehousing

Infrastructure

Transportation / Parking

Aircraft Landing Field        C       C                                                                        C     C              8-4-4

Airport                       C       C                                                                        C     C       C      8-4-4

Freight/Truck Terminal                                                                                         P     P       P     8-4-27
Ground Passenger
Transportation (e.g. taxi,                                                                                 P   P             P      N/A
charter bus)
Heavy Truck Wash
                              C                                                                                C     C       C     8-4-32
Facility
Off Street Parking Facility                                                                       C        C   P     P       P      N/A

Railroad Switching Yard       C                                                                                P     P       P     8-4-59




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 32
                                                                                                                                      Use
      Proposed Use             Rural     Transition         Residential                        Commercial        Industrial
                                                                                                                                   Standards


                                          RUT   RSW           R2, R4   R6, R8   R12, R20
                             RP    RR                 R1                                   LO      C1   C2       M1   M2      M3


Transit Facility                                                                                   P        P    C    C       C     8-4-76

Truck Stop                   C     C                                                                        P    P    P       P     8-4-77

Infrastructure-Utilities
Centralized Power
                             C     C                                                                             C    C       C     8-4-54
Facility
Distribution Power
                             A*    A*    A*     A*    A*      A*       A*       A*         A*     A*    A*      A*    A*    A*      8-4-54
Facility
Distributed Power
Facility, Wind               [P]   [P]                                                                           C    C       C     8-4-54
Freestanding Tower
Distributed Power
                             A*    A*                                                                           A*    A*            8-4-54
Facility, Wind Rooftop
Distributed Power
                             A1    A1    A1     A1    A1      A1       A1       A1         A1      A1   A1      A1    A1    A1      8-4-54
Facility, Solar Rooftop
Electric Distribution Line   [P]   [P]   [P]    [P]   [P]     [P]      [P]      [P]        [P]    [P]   [P]     [P]   [P]   [P]     8-4-54
Electric Sub-transmission
                             P     P      P     P     P       P        P        P          P       P        P    P    P       P     8-4-54
Line
Electric Substation          C     C      C     C     C       C        C        C          C       C        C    C    C       C     8-4-54
Electric Transmission
                             C     C      C     C     C       C        C        C          C       C        C    C    C       C     8-4-54
Line
Communications
Radio and Television
                                                                                                   C        P    P                   N/A
Broadcasting Station
Tower or Antenna
                             [C]   [C]   [C]    [C]   [C]    [C] [C] [C]                   [C]    [C]   [C]     [C]   [C] [C]       8-4-74
Structure, Commercial
Tower or Antenna
                             A*    A*    A*     A*    A*      A*       A*       A*         A*     A*    A*      A*    A* [C]        8-4-75
Structure, Private
Waste-related:

Composting Facility          {C}   {C}                                                                                P       P     8-4-14
Junkyard or Automobile
                                                                                                                      C       C     8-4-35
Wrecking Yard
Recycling Center                                                                                            C    P    P       P     8-4-61

Recycling Plant                                                                                                       P       P      N/A

Sanitary Landfill            C     C                                                                                  C             8-4-63
Septage Treatment and
                             C                                                                                                      8-4-67
Disposal Facility
Soil/Water Remediation       [C]                                                                                                    8-4-69
Soil/Water Remediation,
                             P     P      P     P     P       P        P        P          P       P        P    P    P       P     8-4-69
Onsite
Vehicle Impound Yard                                                                                                  P       P     8-4-78

Accessory Uses

Accessory Retail Sales       A*    A*    A*     A*    A*      A*       A*       A*         A       A    A        A    A       A     8-4-62

Accessory Office             A1    A1    A1     A1    A1      A1       A1       A1         A1      A1   A1      A1    A1    A1      8-4-47



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 33
                                                                                                                                   Use
      Proposed Use           Rural    Transition        Residential                        Commercial        Industrial
                                                                                                                                Standards


                                       RUT   RSW          R2, R4   R6, R8   R12, R20
                            RP   RR                R1                                  LO      C1   C2      M1    M2      M3


Accessory Outdoor
                            A1   A1   A1     A1    A1     A1       A1       A1         A1      A1   A1      A1   A1    A1         8-4-49
Storage
Accessory Structure, 200
                            A1   A1   A1     A1    A1     A1       A1       A1         A1      A1   A1      A1   A1    A1         8-4-2
square feet or less

Accessory Structure, >200
                            A    A     A     A     A      A        A        A          A       A    A       A     A       A       8-4-2
<1,500 square feet
Accessory Structure,
                            A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*         A*     A*    A*      A*   A*    A*         8-4-2
>1,500 square feet
Additional Farm
                            A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*                                                    8-4-21
Dwelling
Caretaker Dwelling          A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*                              A*   A*    A*         8-4-22

Dwelling, Secondary
                            A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*                                                    8-4-23
Attached or Detached

Agricultural Structure      A    A     A     A     A      A        A        A          A       A    A       A     A       A        N/A

Automotive, Hobby           A    A     A     A     A      A        A        A          A       A    A                             8-4-8

Fuel Cell                   A    A     A     A     A      A                                                 A     A       A        N/A

Home Occupation, Small      A    A     A     A     A      A        A        A          A       A    A       A     A       A       8-4-33

Home Occupation, Large      A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*         A*     A*    A*      A*   A*    A*         8-4-33

Kennel, Hobby               A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*         A*     A*    A*      A*   A*    A*         8-4-37

Portable Classroom          A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*         A*     A*    A*      A*   A*    A*         8-4-52
Produce Stand,
                            A    A     A     A     A      A        A        A          A       A    A                             8-4-56
Agricultural
Produce Stand, Roadside     A*   A*   A*     A*    A*     A*       A*       A*         A*     A*    A*                            8-4-56

Small Wireless Facility     A    A     A     A     A      A        A        A          A       A    A       A     A       A       8-4-74
Swimming Pool, Private
(includes swimming
                            A    A     A     A     A      A        A        A          A       A    A                             8-4-5
pools accessory to
Hotels/Motels)
Temporary Uses

Anenometer                  T    T     T     T                                                              T     T       T       8-4-73

Fireworks Stands                                                                       T       T        T                         8-4-73

Seasonal Stands             T    T     T                                               T       T        T                         8-4-73

Seasonal Events             T*   T*   T*     T*    T*     T*       T*       T*         T*      T*   T*                            8-4-73
Temporary Construction
                            T    T     T     T     T      T        T        T          T       T        T   T     T       T       8-4-48
Office
Temporary Living
                            T*   T*   T*     T*    T*     T*       T*       T*         T*      T*   T*      T*   T*    T*         8-4-73
Quarters
Subdivision Model
                            T    T     T     T     T      T        T        T          T       T        T                         8-4-73
Home/Real Estate Offices
Temporary Pit, Mine, or
                            T*   T*   T*     T*    T*     T*       T*       T*         T*      T*   T*      T*   T*    T*      8-4-73/8-4-51
Quarry




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 34
                                                                                                                                Use
     Proposed Use           Rural     Transition        Residential                      Commercial        Industrial
                                                                                                                             Standards


                                       RUT   RSW          R2, R4   R6, R8    R12, R20
                           RP   RR                 R1                                   LO   C1     C2    M1    M2      M3


Other

Billboards                [C]   [C]                                                                 [C]   [C]   [C] [C]       8-3-12
Dangerous or Protected
                           C    C      C     C     C      C        C         C          C    C        C   C     C       C     8-4-17
Animal Facility
Drive-up Establishments                                                                 C    C        C   C                   8-4-19




8-2-24:Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas (BAT) Overlay District
     A. Purpose. The purpose of the Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas (BAT) Overlay
        District is to:
             1. Implement the goals, objectives, and policies of the applicable comprehensive plan as
                it relates to airport influence areas;
             2. Provide for land uses that are compatible with aircraft noise, approach zones, and
                airport operations; Establish the boundaries of the Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence
                Areas overlay district; and
             3. Promote public health, safety, and welfare by limiting and/or placing additional
                restrictions on land use activities within the overlay district.
     B. Applicability. These regulations apply to development as herein defined and as identified
        on the Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas Map, the limits of which are adopted by
        the Zoning Map (see Section 8-2-4).
     C. Influence Areas. Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas (“influence areas”) are
        established within this overlay district consistent with the federal aviation regulations, part
        150 noise compatibility study for the Boise Air Terminal. This Section establishes use
        restrictions and noise attenuation standards for uses subject to noise levels of up to the
        levels established in Table 8-2-24-1 below:
Table 8-2-24-1 Influence Areas and Noise Levels

 Intensity and Development                                                                       Noise Levels
 Influence Area A                                                                              65 dNL
 Influence Area B                                                                              70 dNL
 Influence Area B-1                                                                            60 dNL
                                                                            while acknowledging existing residential uses
 Influence Area C                                                                             > 75 dNL


     D. General Standards
             1. Prior to issuance of a zoning certificate, written documentation shall be provided that
                the property owner has filed an avigation easement with the Boise Air Terminal.
             2. Despite any other regulations of this Title, no use is permitted within the airport

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 35
             influence areas that creates hazards to aircraft and/or impairs landing, takeoff, or
             maneuvering of aircraft.
          3. Within Airport Influence Area B-1, new residential subdivisions shall not exceed a
             maximum density of five (5) dwelling units per acre, if compatible with the existing
             residential development in the area.
          4. Within Airport Influence Area B, new dwellings and/or new residential subdivisions
             are prohibited unless the subject property is designated for a residential land use in the
             applicable comprehensive plan.
          5. No increase in residential density is allowed for properties within Airport Influence
             Area B.
          6. Within the runway approach zones, population density shall not exceed forty (40)
             people per acre within a structure and/or seventy-five (75) people per acre outside a
             structure.
   E. Additional Standards by Influence Area. The underlying base district establishes
      allowed uses.
          1. Single-family attached, single-family detached, secondary dwelling, duplex, farm
             dwelling, caretaker dwelling, temporary living quarters, manufactured home, and
             manufactured home parks are not to exceed a density of five (5) dwelling units per acre
             in the B-1 overlay district. Calculation shall be based on the individual property or on
             proposed development area for the master site plan, as applicable.
          2. Explosive manufacturing or storage, flammable substance storage, fuel sales, golf
             course and country club, hospital, manufacturing, heavy, nursing facility, skilled,
             racetrack, religious land use, school, event centers, and technical school, are prohibited
             in the runway approach zones.
8-2-25:      Wildland-Urban Interface (WUI) Overlay District
   A. Purpose
          1. The Wildland-Urban Interface (WUI) Overlay District protects the public health,
             safety, and welfare by establishing standards to:
             a. Minimize the potential of spreading fire from wildland areas to structures;
             b. Establish special standards that apply to new construction, and the alteration,
                movement or change of use of habitable structures, with the intent to reduce the
                threat of loss of life and property from fire;
             c. Require vehicle turnouts on new private roads with the intent to provide better
                emergency access to remote areas where needed; and
             d. Require that new subdivisions and planned unit developments provide water supply
                systems and suitable access for firefighting crews, with the intent to increase the
                resources available to such crews and minimize the spread of fire.
          2. Ada County has adopted the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code, (See Ada
             County Code Title 7, Chapter 2). This Section supplements that code with zoning and
             development standards.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 36
  B. Applicability
     1. Generally. These regulations apply to development as herein defined and as identified
        on the Wildland-Urban Interface overlay district map, the limits of which are adopted
        by Zoning Map (see Section 8-2-4) on file at the Ada County Development Services
        Department, or as amended.
     2. Non-habitable Structures. Non-habitable structures are exempt from these
        regulations, except when located within the defensible space as set forth in the
        regulations of subsection (C)(1) below.
     3. Clearing. For purposes of this Section, the terms "clear,” “cleared” or “clearing” means
        the removal of all vegetation except:
        a. Single specimens of trees, ornamental vegetation, cultivated ground cover (such as
           green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar plants); and
        b. Native grasses and weeds that do not readily transmit fire trimmed to a maximum
           height of four inches (4"). The Director may approve heights of 4- to 6-inches where
           needed to minimize erosion due to steep slopes.
     4. Relocation. This Section does not require an owner to relocate existing habitable
        structures, driveways, or utilities.
     5. Plant Species. In this Section, references to plant species that do not “form a means of
        readily transmitting fire” means:
        a. The plant has a score of at least eight (8) for the applicable zone, as defined in the
           Fire Resistance of Plants Master Database & Placement of Species Within Firewise
           Landscape Zones for Southern Idaho developed by the Federal Bureau of Land
           Management, the College of Western Idaho Horticulture and the Idaho Botanical
           Garden and published by Idaho Firewise; or
        b. The application demonstrates, and the Director finds, that the plant is fire resistant
           because it:
            1. Has a high moisture content in its leaves;
            2. Has little seasonal buildup of dead vegetation;
            3. Has a low, compact growth form;
            4. Is high in soap or pectin content;
            5. Has green stems; and
            6. Is drought tolerant.
     6. Abutting Property. This Section does not require an owner to remove vegetation from
        an abutting property.
  C. Vegetation Control Standards
     1. Defensible Space
        a. This subsection 1 applies to any “modification,” defined as any new construction,
           or the alteration, movement or change of use of a habitable structure.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 37
        b. A modification requires a minimum fifty foot (50’) defensible space around the
           perimeter of any habitable structure. Property owners shall maintain the defensible
           space unless that responsibility is transferred to another party through a binding
           contract. The defensible space shall meet the criteria in subsections c through j
           below.
        c. Only single specimens of trees, ornamental vegetation, cultivated ground cover
           (such as green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar plants), or native grasses and weeds
           trimmed to a maximum height of four inches (4”), are allowed within the defensible
           space. Plants shall not form a means of readily transmitting fire. All other vegetation
           shall be removed from the defensible space. See Figure 8-2-25-1 below.

           Figure 8-2-25-1 Defensible Space




        d. All deadwood shall be removed from trees within the defensible space. Clusters or
           groups of trees shall be thinned so tree crowns do not overlap. Trees within the
           defensible space shall be pruned. Prune trees up to six feet (6’) to ten feet (10’)
           from the ground; for shorter trees do not exceed one-third (1/3) of the overall tree
           height. See Figure 8-2-25-2 below.

           Figure 8-2-25-2 Defensible Space Pruning




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 38
        e. Tree crowns shall be pruned to maintain a minimum horizontal clearance of ten feet
           (10’) from any structure or chimney outlet.
        f. Liquefied petroleum gas containers shall not be located within the defensible space
           in accord with the applicable code as adopted by the state of Idaho.
        g. Firewood and combustible material shall not be stored in unenclosed spaces
           beneath structures, on decks, or under eaves, canopies, or other projections or
           overhangs. All firewood and combustible material stored in the defensible space
           shall be located a minimum of twenty feet (20’) from structures and separated from
           the crown of trees by a minimum horizontal distance of fifteen feet (15’).
        h. Agricultural structures are not allowed within the defensible space.
        i. All accessory structures within the defensible space must meet the fire resistive
           construction standards for structures as established by the Ada County Building
           Code as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
        j. If an abutting public street or approved private road meets the standards for the
           defensible space as set forth above, the width of that roadway is counted as part of
           the defensible space.
     2. Roads and Driveways. All areas adjacent to private roads and driveways shall be
        cleared of vegetation. Single specimens of trees, ornamental vegetation, cultivated
        ground cover (such as green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar plants), or native grasses
        and weeds trimmed to a maximum height of four inches (4”), are allowed, if these plants
        do not form a means of readily transmitting fire.
        a. For driveways, all areas within five feet (5’) of each side of the driveway shall be
           cleared.
        b. For private roads, the area encompassed by the travel way plus five feet (5’) on each
           side of the travel way, measured from the outside edge of the travel way, shall be
           cleared of all flammable vegetation.
     3. Electrical Distribution and Transmission Lines. All vegetation shall be cleared from
        within thirty-one inches (31”) of any above grade electrical distribution and
        transmission lines.
     4. Electrical Conductors. All vegetation shall be cleared from within ten (10) radial feet
        of any non-insulated energized electrical conductor and associated live parts.
        Cultivated ground cover (such as green grass, ivy, succulents, or similar plants), or
        native grasses and weeds trimmed to a maximum height of four inches (4”), are allowed
        if these plants do not form a means of readily transmitting fire.
     5. New Driveways / Construction or Moving Structures. For new driveways, new
        construction, or moving of structures on a site, the areas that require vegetation removal
        shall be located within the property boundaries. The Director may approve a lesser
        standard if:
        a. The property abuts a public or approved private road as set forth in subsection 8-2-
           25C.1.j of this Section; and/or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 39
             b. Severe topographic or other site constraints exist that prohibit locating new
                construction to meet the specified standard.
   D. Private Road Standards
          1. All new private roads require vehicular turnouts for emergency vehicles. These
             turnouts require spacing at a maximum interval of seven hundred feet (700’) with a
             minimum width of ten feet (10’) and minimum length of thirty feet (30’). Road
             construction and vehicular turnarounds shall meet the private road standards as set forth
             in Section 8-3-11 of this Title. Driveways that meet turnout standards count as turnouts
             if they are at least twenty feet (20') wide and thirty feet (30') long.
          2. Maintenance of the private road shall include vegetation control as specified in
             subsection 8-2-25C.2.b of this Section.
   E. New Subdivisions and Planned Unit Developments
          1. An engineer, special expert (e.g., wildfire mitigation specialist), or other person that
             the Director finds has demonstrated competence and relevant wildfire experience, or
             training shall be retained who can demonstrate the following for the development:
             a. Evaluate fire hazards and emergency access roads to determine site specific hazards
                and proper accessibility for emergency vehicles.
             b. Prepare a fire protection plan that is specifically tailored to the proposed
                subdivision or planned unit development that includes:
                 1. Completed fire hazard severity form from the current International Wildland-
                    Urban Interface Code, appendix C, using nationally recognized standards;
                 2. A fire protection plan map showing the roadway, turnouts, turnarounds,
                    terminus, and lots;
                 3. Determination of fuel model and fuel loading;
                 4. Required signage for turnouts, turnarounds, and fire lane parking;
                 5. Required number and placement of turnouts based on development density and
                    roadway width;
                 6. Requirements for fire resistance rated construction;
                 7. Required road width or required interconnected system of roadways and fire
                    accesses.
          2. As part of the agency review process of subdivisions and planned unit developments,
             the fire protection plan shall be reviewed by:
             a. The applicable fire district; or
             b. If no fire district applies, the Ada County Sheriff, with advice from the Idaho State
                Fire Marshal.
   F. Prohibited Uses. Campgrounds and seasonal farmworker housing are prohibited within
      the Wildland-Urban Interface overlay district.
8-2-26:      Southwest Planning Area (SPA) Overlay District


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 40
   A. Purpose. The purpose of the Southwest Planning Area (SPA) Overlay District is to
      establish standards to accommodate urban development in the southwest planning area of
      the Boise City comprehensive plan that is compatible with high ground water and drainage
      conditions and to ensure provision of urban public facilities, in addition to other applicable
      standards and procedures in this Title.
   B. Applicability. This Section applies to development as herein defined in the Southwest
      Planning Area of the Boise City comprehensive plan. This Section is designated by the
      Zoning Map (see Section 8-2-4).
   C. Standards
          1. New development is not permitted until urban public facilities are available. This
             subsection does not apply to single-family detached dwellings on existing platted lots
             or on properties two and a half (2.5) acres or larger.
          2. If the Central District Health Department determines that an existing wastewater
             treatment system has failed:
             a. The property owner shall connect to the Boise sewer system, if a collection line is
                located within three hundred feet (300') of the property line; or
             b. If a collection line is not located within three hundred feet (300') of the property
                line, the existing wastewater treatment system may be replaced with a system
                approved by the Central District Health Department.
          3. Creeks, streambeds, and riparian areas within this overlay district shall be left in a
             natural state, not channeled, and kept free of any obstructions to water flows. This
             subsection does not apply to necessary road and/or public service crossings.
8-2-27:      Area of Military Influence (AMI) Overlay District
   A. Purpose. The Area of Military Influence (AMI) Overlay District:
          1. Implements the goals, objectives, and policies of the applicable comprehensive plan as
             it relates to the areas of military influence;
          2. Provides for notification areas to ensure the Idaho National Guard officials are made
             aware of land use applications within the AMI; and
          3. Promotes the public health, safety, and welfare by having regulations and standards for
             new development within the AMI to ensure compatibility with military activity
             occurring in the AMI.
   B. Applicability
          1. The Area of Military Influence Overlay (AMI) District consists of:
             a. A one-fourth (1/4) mile buffer along either side of the centerline of Pleasant Valley
                Road that extends from Gowen Field to the Orchard Combat Training Center to be
                known as the Military Tank Trail, the limits of which are adopted by the Zoning
                Map (see Section 8-2-4); and
             b. A buffer area surrounding the Orchard Combat Training Center, the limits of which
                are adopted by the Zoning Map (see Section 8-2-4).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 41
          2. This Section applies to development as herein defined within the adopted AMI.
          3. This Section does not apply to:
             a. Uses occurring within structures that are listed on the national register of historic
                places;
             b. Structures identified by the Ada County Historic Preservation Council as having
                historical significance; or
             c. Structures identified as contributing in an archeological or historical survey or study
                accepted by the State Historic Preservation Office.
   C. Process. Applications shall be transmitted to the appropriate agency, including, but not
      limited to, the following: National Guard, Mountain Home Military Base, and the Boise
      Airport Director.
   D. Standards
          1. Uses that require a conditional use, master site plan, planned community or subdivision
             application located within the AMI shall address compatibility issues such as
             intermittent noise, dust, traffic, and other development design issues.
          2. For subdivisions located within the AMI the following statement shall appear on the
             final plat:
             “This development recognizes that it is in an Area of Military Influence (AMI) and as
             such there will be times during the course of the year that properties could be subject
             to intermittent dust, noise, and military traffic.”
          3. Development shall conform to Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) part 77 height
             limits (as may be amended) as not to pose a safety hazard to air traffic.
8-2-28:      Flood Hazard (FH) Overlay District
   A. Purpose. The purpose of the Flood Hazard Overlay (FH) District is to promote public
      health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to
      potential flooding. The provisions are designed to:
          1. Protect human life, health, and property;
          2. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water purification and sewage
             treatment plants, water, and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets, and
             bridges located in floodplains;
          3. Provide for the sound use and development in flood prone areas;
          4. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
          5. Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with flooding,
             generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
          6. Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
          7. Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of special flood hazard;
             and
          8. Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume responsibility for


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 42
         their actions.
  B. Warning and Disclaimer. The degree of flood protection required by this Section is
     considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
     considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may be increased due to
     artificial or natural causes. This Section does not imply that property outside the identified
     Special Flood Hazard Areas will be free from flooding or flood damages, or that uses
     permitted within the identified Special Flood Hazard Areas will be free from flooding or
     flood damages. This Section shall not create liability on the part of Ada County, any officer
     or employee thereof, or the federal insurance and mitigation administration, for any flood
     damages that result from adherence to this Section, or any administrative decision lawfully
     made hereunder. If any Section, provision, or portion of this ordinance is adjudged
     unconstitutional or invalid by a court, the remainder of the ordinance shall not be affected.
  C. Authority. This Section is adopted pursuant to Idaho Code Section 46-1001, et seq., which
     authorizes local governments to adopt floodplain management ordinances that identify
     floodplains and minimum floodplain development standards to minimize flood hazards and
     protect human life, health, and property.
  D. Applicability. These regulations shall apply to "development" as defined in this Section,
     within all Special Flood Hazard Areas identified by one or more of the following:
     1. The federal insurance and mitigation administration in a scientific and engineering
        report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) For Ada County, Idaho," revised June
        19, 2020, and all subsequent amendments and revisions, and the accompanying Flood
        Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) and Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRMS), and
        all subsequent amendments and revisions to such maps, are hereby adopted by
        reference and serve as the basis for establishing flood hazard areas. Maps and studies
        that establish flood hazard areas are on file at the Ada County Development Services
        Department.
     2. Foothill or other hillside tributary floodplains as herein defined.
  E. Administration
     1. Floodplain Administrator Responsibilities. The Director, or their designee,
        hereinafter referred to as the "Floodplain Administrator," is hereby appointed to
        administer and implement the provisions of this Section and shall have the following
        responsibilities in all Special Flood Hazard Areas:
         a. Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for all proposed
            development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to determine whether proposed
            building sites comply with the requirements for building in a Special Flood Hazard
            Area.
         b. Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that
            all necessary Local, State, and Federal permits have been received, including
            Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33
            USC Section 1334.
         c. Notify adjacent communities and the Idaho Department of Water Resources State
            Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) prior to any


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 43
           alteration or relocation of a watercourse. (This is the LOMC procedure).
        d. Confirm stream channel or water course alteration meets the current Federal
           Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) NFIP regulations.
        e. Prevent unpermitted encroachments into the floodway.
        f. Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
           floor (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and substantially
           improved structures.
        g. Obtain and maintain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
           new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed.
        h. Review plans to verify public utilities are constructed to minimize flood damage.
        i. When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain, and maintain
           Floodproofing Certifications on the latest FEMA approved forms.
        j. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries of the Special
           Flood Hazard Areas, and floodways (for example, where there appears to be a
           conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the
           necessary interpretation in conjunction with entity making conflicting decision. The
           person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable
           opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this Section.
        k. When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data has not been provided, obtain, review, and
           reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with floodway data available from a Federal,
           State, or other source.
        l. When Base Flood Elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway data has been
           provided, require that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other
           development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A (or A1-30) and AE
           on Ada County's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
           proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
           development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more
           than one (1) foot at any point within Ada County. (This is a Hydraulic & Hydrology
           Analysis).
        m. When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or the lowest
           ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) is above the
           Base Flood Elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the option to apply for a
           Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the LOMA
           issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
        n. Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of this Section.
        o. Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a floodplain
           development permit progresses, the floodplain administrator shall make as many
           inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done
           according to the provisions of this Section and the terms of the permit. In exercising
           this power of inspection of work related to a permit, the floodplain administrator
           has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 44
             Ada County at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
             enforcement action.
         p. Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
            constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this Section, the
            floodplain administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The stop-
            work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing or in charge of the
            work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
            reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition(s) under which the work may be
            resumed.
         q. Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain Administrator
            may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development permit by
            notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the revocation.
            Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
            application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the
            requirements of State or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations
            made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development permit mistakenly issued
            in violation of an applicable State or local law may also be revoked.
         r. Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas within Ada
            County.
         s. Prohibit activities that violate the regulations of this Section.
         t. Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
         u. Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the FIS Report,
            FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies including any revisions thereto
            including Letters of Map Change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State
            Coordinator and FEMA of your community's mapping needs.
         v. Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of Map Revision
            Based on Fill (LOMR-Fs) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMRs).
     2. Interpretation. All of the regulations of this Section shall be considered as minimum
        requirements and shall be considered liberally construed in favor of the governing body
        and shall not be deemed to limit or repeal any other powers granted under state statutes.
  F. Definitions. For the purposes of this Section, the terms, as herein defined, shall be used in
     the administration of this Section:
     A Zone: A Special Flood Hazard Area delineated on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
     that is subject to inundation by the one percent (1%) annual chance flood event generally
     determined using approximate methodologies. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have
     not been performed, no base flood elevations or flood depths are shown.

     AE Zone: A Special Flood Hazard Area delineated on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
     that is subject to inundation by the one percent (1%) annual chance flood event determined
     by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are shown.

     Area of Shallow Flooding: An area within the flood fringe shown on the flood insurance


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 45
     rate map (FIRM) as an AO or an AH zone; and where the base flood depths range from
     one to three feet (3'), a clearly defined channel does not exist, the path of flooding is
     unpredictable and indeterminate, and velocity flow may be evident.

     Base Flood: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded
     each year. Also known as the "regulatory flood."

     Base Flood Elevation (BFE): A determination by the Federal Insurance Administrator of
     the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a one percent
     or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.

     When the BFE has not been provided in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be obtained
     from engineering studies available from a Federal, State, or other source using FEMA-
     approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the Freeboard,
     establishes the Flood Protection Elevation.

     Basement: Any area of a structure having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
     sides, including a crawl space.

     Check Dam: A structure erected perpendicular to the direction of flow of floodwaters in a
     foothill or other hillside tributary floodplain, and which does not exceed ten feet (10') in
     height or fifty (50) acre-feet of storage capacity and is constructed for the purpose of
     reducing the velocity of floodwaters or reducing flood flows downstream or both. For the
     purposes of this Section, energy dissipating devices shall be considered check dams.

     Cleaning: Mowing, cutting, or burning of weeds, trees, and other nuisance growth,
     including algae growth, application of pesticides as permitted, removal of beaver dams,
     and removal of trash or other debris whether floating, lodged or otherwise obstructing the
     conveyance of water flow through channels and works.

     Critical Facilities: Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or critical to the
     health and safety of the public before, during, and after a flood, such as a hospital,
     emergency operations center, electric substation, police station, fire station, nursing home,
     school, vehicle and equipment storage facility, or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded,
     would make the flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
     facility, power generation facility, water utility, or wastewater treatment plant.

     Development: Any man-made change to improved or unimproved property, including but
     not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
     excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.

     Development Activity: Any activity defined as Development which will necessitate a
     Floodplain Permit. This includes any man-made change to improved or unimproved
     property including, but not limited to, the construction of buildings, structures or accessory
     structures, or the construction of additions or substantial improvements to buildings,
     structures or accessory structures; the placement of mobile homes; filling, mining,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 46
     dredging, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations; storage of equipment and
     materials; and the deposition or extraction of materials; specifically including the
     construction of dikes, berms and levees.

     Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM): A digital representation of a flood
     insurance rate map (FIRM) within an electronic mapping application depicting both the
     Special Flood Hazard Areas and the risk premium zones applicable within Ada County.

     Dredging: The removal of sediment from the bottom of streams creeks, irrigation and
     drainage channels and works.

     Elevation Certificate: The Elevation Certificate is an important administrative tool of the
     NFIP. It is used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to
     document elevation information; and it may be used to support a request for a Letter of
     Map Amendment (LOMA), or Letter of Map Revision based on fill (LOMR-F).

     FEMA Regulatory Floodway Boundary: The channel of a river or other watercourse and
     the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
     cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height.

     Flood Elevation Study (FES): An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
     hazards, flood profiles, floodway boundaries and water surface elevation of the base flood.

     Flood Fringe: The area between the floodway and the one hundred (100) year floodplain
     boundary, including the A zones where no floodway is identified (see Figure 8-2-28-1
     Special Flood Hazard Area Diagram below).

     Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM): The official map of Ada County, on which the
     Federal Insurance Administrator has delineated both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and
     the risk premium zones applicable to Ada County. A FIRM that has been made available
     digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).

     Flood Insurance Study (FIS): An examination, evaluation, and determination of flood
     hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or an examination,
     evaluation, and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion
     hazards.
     Flood or Flooding:
     A. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry
        land areas from:
        1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
        2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
        3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as defined in
           paragraph A.2. of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud
           on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 47
            water and deposited along the path of the current.
     B. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of water as
        a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding
        anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a
        natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of
        nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and
        unforeseeable event which results in flooding as defined in paragraph A.1 of this
        definition.
        Floodplain Administrator: The individual appointed to administer and enforce the
        floodplain management regulations.

        Floodplain Management: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
        preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency
        preparedness plans, flood control works, and flood plain management regulations.

        Floodplain Management Regulations: Zoning regulations, subdivision regulations,
        building codes, health regulations, special purpose regulations (such as flood plain
        regulations, grading regulations, and erosion control regulations), and other
        applications of police power. The term describes such federal, state, or local
        regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of
        flood damage prevention and reduction.

        Floodproofing: Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes,
        or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or
        improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures, and their contents.

        Flood Protection Elevation (FPE): The Base Flood Elevation plus the Freeboard. In
        "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) have been
        determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet (2') of freeboard.

        Floodplain: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by floodwaters (see Figure
        8-2-28-1.)




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 48
     Figure 8-2-28-1 Special Flood Hazard Area Diagram




        Floodplain and Bank Restoration: The reestablishment of the structure and function
        of ecosystems and floodplains to return the ecosystem as closely as possible to its
        natural conditions and functions prior to being developed or impacted by a natural
        event.

        Floodproofing Certificate: A FEMA form used to certify a floodproofing design for
        a nonresidential structure that is being floodproofed as an alternative to elevating the
        structure to or above the base flood elevation.

        Floodway: See FEMA Regulatory Floodway Boundary.

        Foothill or Hillside Tributary Floodplain: A watercourse or drainageway located in
        the foothills or other hillside tributary that collects and carries water draining from an
        area of greater than ten (10) acres in size.

        Freeboard: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for the
        purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
        unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
        calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave action,
        obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the hydrologic effects of
        urbanization in a watershed. The Base Flood Elevation (BFE) plus the freeboard
        establishes the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE). Freeboard shall be two feet (2').

        Functionally Dependent Use: A facility that cannot be used for its intended purpose
        unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a docking or port
        facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding,
        or ship repair facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture,
        sales, or service facilities.

        Highest Adjacent Grade: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
        construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure. Refer to the FEMA
        Elevation Certificate for HAG related to building elevation information.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 49
        Historic Structure: A structure that is:
        A. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained
           by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
           the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National
           Register;
        B. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing
           to the historical significance of a registered historic district or to a district
           preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
        C. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places and determined as eligible
           by states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
           Secretary of the Interior; or
        D. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places and determined as eligible
           by communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either:
           1. By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior; or
           2. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.

        Irrigation or Drainage Channel: A man-made or natural channel used to convey or
        deliver water for irrigation, drainage, or other uses, by irrigation districts, canal
        companies, lateral associations, drainage districts, or other water delivery entities.
        Irrigation and drainage channels include man-made canals, ditches, laterals, culverts,
        flumes, tiled drains, pipes, storage reservoirs, and natural channels (including
        reservoirs on natural channels), used to convey storage or other sources of water owned
        or controlled by an irrigation or drainage entity.

        Irrigation and Drainage Works: Man-made structures used to divert, regulate, and
        measure water from natural channels (streams, rivers, lakes, and springs) and in man-
        made irrigation and drainage channels. Irrigation and drainage work include diversions
        or regulation structures, including but not limited to control gates or head gates, check
        dams or diversion dams, culverts, measuring devices and their housing (including
        stilling wells and staff gages), flumes, siphons, pumps, pipes, protective structures,
        energy dissipaters, fish passage structures, and trash screens or trash racks.

        Letter of Map Change (LOMC): A general term used to refer to the several types of
        revisions and amendments to FIRMs that can be accomplished by letter. They include
        Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA), Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), Letter of Map
        Revision based on Fill (LOMR-F), and Conditional Letters of Map Revision
        (CLOMR).

        Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to an
        effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes a
        property's or structure's location in relation to the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
        LOMAs are usually issued because a property or structure has been inadvertently
        mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 50
        flood elevation.

        Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): FEMA's modification to an effective Flood
        Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or a Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM) or both.
        LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that affect the
        hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the
        modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective Base Flood Elevations
        (BFEs), or the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA). The LOMR officially revises the
        Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map (FBFM),
        and sometimes the Flood Insurance Study (FIS) report, and when appropriate, includes
        a description of the modifications.

        The LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the affected portions of
        the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.

        Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): FEMA's modification of the
        Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
        based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway. The LOMR-F
        does not change the FIRM, FBFM, or FIS report.

        Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and comment as
        to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project complies with the
        minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of Special
        Flood Hazard Areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate
        Map (FIRM) or Flood Insurance Study (FIS). Upon submission and approval of
        certified as-built documentation, a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) may be issued by
        FEMA to revise the effective FIRM.

        Lowest Floor: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement or
        subgrade crawl space). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
        parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
        not considered a building's lowest floor; Provided, that such enclosure is not built so as
        to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirements
        of 44 CFR Section 60.3 and this Section.

        Maintenance: The act of ongoing upkeep of existing structures required to keep
        channels in a condition adequate to support the conveyance of irrigation and drainage
        water (this does not include the complete replacement or substantial replacement of an
        existing structure). Maintenance is further defined as the care or upkeep of channels,
        works, appurtenances, easements, utility corridors and property; to keep in an existing
        state, specified state of repair, and efficiency; return to a former condition, elevation,
        place, and position; to preserve from failure or decline; or repair or renovate so as to
        return it to its original condition. Maintenance does not include dredging as defined
        herein.

        Manufactured Home: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built on a


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 51
        permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation
        when connected to the required utilities. This includes Tiny Homes and Park Models.
        The term "manufactured home" does not include a “recreational vehicle.”

        Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
        divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.

        Market Value: The building value, not including the land value and that of any
        accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value is determined by
        the tax assessed values, unless revised by an independent certified appraisal (paid for
        by the property owner).

        New Construction: For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which the
        start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
        management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
        improvements to such structures. Any construction started after April 4, 1984 (entry
        into the NFHP), and before the effective start date of this floodplain management
        section is subject to the section in effect at the time the permit was issued, provided the
        start of construction was within one hundred and eighty (180) days of permit issuance.

        Nonresidential Structure: A building, other than a residential structure or dwelling,
        or parts thereof, that is open to the public or for private use. The term nonresidential
        structure includes but is not limited to: structures used for places of assembly,
        education, business, maintenance, storage, manufacturing, and government.

        Operation: The regular and reoccurring performance of typical work by an irrigation
        or drainage entity including, but not limited to, the delivery or drainage of water,
        measurement of water, and adjustment of irrigation and drainage works and all related
        appurtenances.

        Ordinary High-Water Mark: The line that the water impresses upon the soil by
        covering it for sufficient periods of time to deprive the soil of its vegetation and destroy
        its value for agricultural purposes. When the soil, configuration of the surface, or
        vegetation has been altered by human activity, the natural or ordinary high-water mark
        will be located where it would have been if this alteration had not occurred.

        Recreational Vehicle: A vehicle that is:
        A. Built on a single chassis;
        B. Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
           projection;
        C. Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty truck; and
        D. Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
           quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 52
        Regulatory Floodway: See FEMA Regulatory Floodway Boundary

        Repair: The restoration to good or sound conditions of any part of an existing structure,
        channel, channel bank, or service road for the purpose of maintenance (this does not
        include the complete replacement or substantial replacement of an existing structure).
        Repair does not include dredging as defined herein.

        Residential Structure: A building used as a dwelling for one or more persons. The
        term residential structure includes, but is not limited to houses, family day care homes,
        group day care facilities, apartment buildings, lodging homes, dormitories, hotels,
        motels, hospitals, sanatoriums, and nursing homes. The term residential structure also
        includes accessory use areas used in conjunction with, and an integral part of, a
        residential structure.

        Riparian Area: The land that directly abuts a natural body of water such as a river,
        lake, stream, creek, or coastal body of water and is within twenty-five feet (25') of the
        FEMA Regulatory Floodway Boundary.

        Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA): The areas in Ada County in the flood plain
        subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year. For
        purposes of these regulations, the term “Special Flood Hazard Area” is synonymous in
        meaning with the phrase “area of special flood hazard.” It also includes foothill or
        hillside tributary floodplain; and other areas determined by the floodplain administrator
        to be a hazard to public health, safety, and welfare due to flooding.

        Start of Construction: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
        building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
        reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within
        one hundred and eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
        first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring
        of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
        beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
        foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
        grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
        does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection
        of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory
        buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the
        main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means
        the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
        whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.

        Structure: A walled and/or roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank that
        is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.

        Substantial Damage (SD): Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
        cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged condition would equal or exceed


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 53
        fifty percent (50%) of its market value before the damage occurred. See definition of
        “substantial improvement.” Substantial damage also means flood- related damage
        sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for
        which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
        exceeds twenty-five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the
        damage occurred.

        Substantial Improvement (SI): Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
        improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
        the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement.
        This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of
        the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
        A. Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or
           local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
           the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to assure
           safe living conditions; or
        B. Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the alteration will not preclude
           the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure” and the alteration is
           approved by variance issued pursuant to this Section.

        Violation: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with
        this Section. A structure or other development without the Finished Construction
        Elevation Certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in
        44 CFR Sections 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or(e)(5) is presumed
        to be in violation, see Chapter 8 of this Title, until such time as that documentation is
        provided.
  G. Process
     1. Approval. Prior to the commencement of any development within any Special Flood
        Hazard Area, the property owner shall obtain approval of a floodplain permit.
     2. Application. An application, including fees, shall be submitted to the Development
        Services Department, on forms provided by the department, along with all required
        information identified on the applicable floodplain checklist. The floodplain
        administrator will review the request and determine if additional information,
        certificates, or studies are required prior to commencement of development or
        manufactured home placement.
     3. Permit Duration. The approval of a floodplain permit shall be limited to a two (2) year
        period in which the proposed improvements shall be completed to the satisfaction of
        the floodplain administrator.
     4. Determination of the Base Flood Elevation (BFE). The first item to accomplish for
        any proposed work in the special flood hazard area is to determine the BFE by any of
        the following:
        a. A previous FEMA study or map. FEMA Zone AE will already have a BFE noted
           for use.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 54
        b. A flood elevation study (FES). FEMA Zone A will require the BFE to be
           established by the application. A FES shall be prepared by a professional engineer
           licensed in the state of Idaho and must be approved by the floodplain administrator
           prior to the commencement of any development. The study submitted shall include:
           1. A title;
           2. A table of contents;
           3. The location and description of the property;
           4. A scope of work;
           5. Analysis and documentation of methods and procedures to determine the flood
              elevation and any additional information required by this Section;
           6. A discussion of the proposed use in the existing floodplain and the surrounding
              land uses;
           7. A discussion of floodplain regulation compliance; and
           8. All other items identified on the floodplain checklist as may be applicable
              and/or as may be required by the floodplain administrator.
        5. Once the BFE is determined the following standards apply:
           a. A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted showing adequate drainage
              paths around structures.
           b. For Residential Structures, the application shall include an Elevation Certificate
              on the most current FEMA Approved forms. The Elevation Certificate must
              show the lowest floor elevation (including basement or crawlspace) is two feet
              (2’) above the BFE. New residential structure construction in the floodway is
              prohibited.
           c. For Non-Residential Structures, the application shall include an Elevation
              Certificate on the most current FEMA Approved forms. The Elevation
              Certificate must show the lowest floor elevation (including basement or
              crawlspace) is two feet (2’) above the BFE. OR the application shall include a
              Floodproofing Certificate on the most current FEMA approved forms. The
              Floodproofing Certificate must show floodproofing protection is provided up
              to two feet (2’) above the BFE. New non-residential construction in the
              floodway is prohibited.
           d. For pools, the application shall include an Elevation Certificate or
              Floodproofing certificate on the most current FEMA approved forms. The form
              must show flood protection is provided up to two feet (2’) above the BFE. New
              pool construction in the floodway is prohibited.
           e. For a pit, mine, or quarry, the application shall demonstrate that the extraction
              site will be designed to avoid river avulsion by a FES. The FES must be
              approved prior to commencement of the use or breaking ground. Gravel mining
              operations or excavations are not permitted within two hundred feet (200') of
              the top of riverbank regardless of floodway or floodplain designation. Material


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 55
              stockpiles and permanently installed structures shall not be located within the
              regulatory floodway. New pit, mine, or quarry construction and/or operation is
              prohibited in the floodway.
           f. For a proposed subdivision, the application shall demonstrate that the
              subdivision shall be consistent in design and construction with the need to
              minimize flood damage. Public utilities and facilities including, but not limited
              to, sewer, gas, electrical, telephone, and water systems shall be located and
              constructed to minimize flood damage and certified by a professional engineer
              licensed in the state of Idaho. Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce
              exposure to flood damage. All roads shall be elevated at two (2’) above the
              established base flood elevation and allow flood water to pass under so that it
              does not act as a check dam. New subdivision construction is prohibited in the
              floodway.
           g. For subdivisions, the SFHA boundary lines must be drawn on the final plat and
              a plat note(s) added designating the following:
              1. FEMA FIRM panel(s): #160xxxxxxC, and 160xxxxxxE, etc.;
              2. FIRM effective date(s): mm/dd/year;
              3. Flood Zone(s): Zone X, Zone A, Zone AE, A Zone, Zone D, etc.;
              4. Base Flood Elevation(s): AE xxxxxx.x ft., etc.; and
              5. The following statement: "Flood Zones are subject to change by FEMA and
                 all land within a floodway or floodplain is regulated by Section 8-2-28 of
                 the Ada County Code and FEMA and the Local Floodplain Authority."
           h. For proposed work in a Foothill or Hillside tributary, the County Engineer may
              require an FES to determine that the proposed work will not result in any
              increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base
              flood discharge.
           i. For new bridges, the proposed plan(s) shall show that all horizontal bridge
              supports are elevated two feet (2’) above the BFE and that all supporting
              members are designed to withstand the flows and velocities of the base flood.
           j. If the proposed work requires a change to the effective FEMA Map and/or FIS,
              then a LOMR shall be submitted to FEMA. Ada County may require the
              applicant submit a CLOMR to FEMA prior to work starting if the project scope
              warrants.
           k. The following setbacks apply to all proposed work in the Special Flood Hazard
              Area and outside of the Special Flood Hazard Area:
              Boise River Setback. Structures, parking areas, and fences shall be setback one
              hundred feet (100') from the Floodway line of the Boise River. Structures,
              parking areas and fences shall also be five feet (5’) from the boundary of all
              dedications or easements granted to the County for recreational purposes in
              excess of sixty-five feet (65’).
              Great Blue Heron Rookeries Setback. If Great Blue Heron Rookeries have


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 56
                been identified and documented by the County or Idaho Fish and Game
                Department, a three-hundred-foot (300’) setback from the rookery location,
                applies to development within the Boise River Greenway.
                Bald Eagle Nest Setback. If Bald Eagle nests have been identified and
                documented by the County or Idaho Fish and Game Department, a two-
                hundred-foot (200’) setback from the nest location, applies to development
                within the Boise River Greenway.
                Riparian Setback. Grading including vegetation clearing or thinning is not
                allowed within one hundred feet (100’) of the FEMA Regulatory Floodway
                Boundary unless required for public safety and approved in writing prior to
                work.
            l. For proposed fences and walls, fence construction is prohibited in the
               Floodway. Proposed fencing in the floodplain shall be reviewed on a case-by-
               case basis to confirm flood flows will not be obstructed.
            m. For proposed projects that have Functionally Dependent Use, functionally
               dependent uses shall follow the standards of this Section, provided that the use
               does not cause a rise in the BFE within a regulatory floodway, and the structure
               and other development must be protected by methods that minimize flood
               damages.
            n. For habitat restoration and bank stabilization projects, a floodplain permit is
               required. Although these projects will require a No-Rise Certification, these
               projects may not require a full hydraulic analysis if the permit shows equal or
               greater flood water conveyance by standard engineering practice.
            o. For irrigation district work, the floodplain permit will be governed by the
               Guidance Letter issued to Ada County from the Idaho Department of Water
               Resources dated 5-20-2019, and any following amendments from IDWR.
  H. Land Use Restrictions for Special Flood Hazard Areas
     1. Land Use Restrictions. AE, A, and D Zones and the Regulatory Floodway: Despite
        any other regulations of this Title, Critical Facilities, and the following uses, including
        any new construction or substantial improvements to such uses, are prohibited in the
        regulatory floodway, AE, A, or D zone where the base flood elevations have been
        determined or estimated:
        Explosive manufacturing or storage.
        Flammable substance storage.
        Foster home, group.
        Gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales.
        Junkyard or automobile wrecking yard.
        Manufacture and/or storage of materials that are buoyant, flammable, toxic,
        radioactive, or explosive or may present a hazard to public health or safety in time of
        flooding.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 57
          Manufacture of electronic or electrical products.
          Manufacture or processing of hazardous chemicals or gases.
          Manufactured home storage.
          Portable classroom.
          Sanitary landfill, restricted.
          School, vocational or trade.
          Soil or water remediation.
          Tannery.
          Vehicle impound yard.
          Stormwater Facilities
          Sanitary Sewer Facilities.
  I. Required Findings. In order to approve the application, the decision-making body shall
     find that the proposed development including, but not limited to, new construction,
     placement of manufactured home or substantial improvement, meets the general
     regulations and standards as set forth in this Section, and as such, shall find that the
     proposed work would not result in any increase in flood levels within the community
     during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
  J. Appeals
     1.    Appeals of determinations made by the floodplain administrator shall be heard by the
           board and shall comply with procedures of Section 8-6-13 of this Title.
     2.    Appeals which allege there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
           made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
           Section, shall be supported by technical and scientific evidence which shall include,
           but is not limited to, the following items:
          a. A copy of the recorded plat map showing the property or, if there is no recorded
             plat map, a scaled vicinity map showing the property.
          b. A topographic map showing ground elevation contours and a line representing the
             area subject to inundation by the base flood.
          c. Certification by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho of the
             elevation of the lowest floor (including basement and/or crawl space), the elevation
             of any fill, the date on which the fill was placed, and the elevation to which any
             structure has been floodproofed.
     3. The board shall base their decision on an appeal on the specific and technical evidence
        in the record.
  K. Variances to Flood Insurance Program Standards
     1. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to provide a relief from national flood
        insurance program standards as they pertain to a physical piece of property and at the
        same time not jeopardizing sufficient flood protection.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 58
     2. Applicability. Variances may be issued consistent with the FEMA variance and
        exception regulations as set forth in 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 60.6.
     3. Process.
        a. An application and fees, as set forth in Section 8-6-5 of this Title, shall be submitted
           to the Director on forms provided by the Development Services Department.
        b. The Board shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
           specified in other Sections of this Section including, but not limited to, the expected
           heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport of the floodwaters if
           applicable, expected at the site.
        c. The Board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems
           necessary to further the purposes of this Section.
        d. The Board shall apply the findings listed in subsection 4 of this subsection to review
           the variance.
        e. Anyone to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that:
           1. The issuance of the variance to construct a structure below the base flood level
              will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high
              as twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance
              coverage; and that such construction below the base flood level increases the
              risk to life and property.
     4. Required Variance Findings
        a. The proposed use adequately mitigates any danger that materials may be swept onto
           other properties to the injury of others;
        b. The proposed use adequately mitigates the danger to life and property due to
           flooding or erosion damage;
        c. The proposed use minimizes the susceptibility of the proposed facility and its
           contents to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
        d. The proposed use provides an important service to Ada County;
        e. The proposed use shall not cause extraordinary public expense in providing
           governmental services during post-flood conditions including maintenance and
           repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems,
           and streets and bridges;
        f. The proposed use shall not have available alternative locations that are not subject
           to flooding or erosion damage;
        g. The proposed use provides for safe access to the property in times of flood for
           ordinary and emergency vehicles;
        h. The variance shall not conflict with existing local laws or articles;
        i. The variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
           relief;
        j. The variance shall not result in increased flood heights during the base flood

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 59
                  discharge;
               k. The variance shall not cause fraud on or victimization of the public; and
               l. Failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship.
          5.      Required Findings for Historic Structures. The following additional findings are
                  required for variances for historic structures:
               a. The proposed repair or rehabilitation of the structure will not preclude the
                  structure's continued designation as a historic structure; and
               b. The variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
                  of the structure.
8-2-29:        Boise River Greenway (BRG) Overlay District
   A. Purpose. The purpose of the Boise River Greenway Overlay (BRG) District is to protect
      and enhance the important environmental features of the Boise River, and to protect fish,
      wildlife, and recreation resources consistent with the purpose of the "Local Land Use
      Planning Act," Idaho Code Section 67-6501 et seq., as amended.
   B. Applicability. This Section applies to development as herein defined in those lands
      situated between the Boise River and a three hundred feet (300') wide buffer zone that
      parallels the FEMA Regulatory Floodway Boundary as defined in Section 8-2-28. All
      terms are as defined in subsection 8-2-28F.
   C. General Standards
               1. Development shall minimize the disturbance of natural vegetation within the BRG.
               2. Development within the BRG shall incorporate landscaping in all unpaved areas
                  where the natural vegetation has been disturbed or removed.
               3. In addition to the requirements of Section 8-2-28 of this Chapter, and of Section 8-
                  3-7G of this Title, parking areas shall have a minimum five-foot (5') screen between
                  an approved parking area and the Ordinary High-Water Mark, as defined in
                  subsection 8-2-28F, of the Boise River. Screening materials shall be as set forth in
                  Section 8-3-7E of this Title.
               4. Additional screening of uses as viewed from the Boise River Greenway may be
                  required consistent with the purpose of this Section.
   D. Specific Standards
          1. Wetlands. In recognition of their importance and their scarcity, wetlands shall be
             preserved as follows:
               a. Wetlands may be replaced with a wetland of equal size, provided that the created
                  wetland has the same or greater degree of natural resource functions and values as
                  did the impacted wetland.
               b. The wetland may be relocated anywhere on the project site or offsite.
          2. Enhancement of Water Resources. Proposals to use or create a water amenity shall
             be designed to accommodate wetland and riparian functions and wildlife or warm water
             fish habitats.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 60
     3. Parks and Open Spaces. Open spaces such as parks, golf courses, greenbelt areas,
        parking lots, etc., within the BRG and the floodplain, shall be designed to accommodate
        the base flood event as provided in Section 8-2-28.
     4. Emergency Access. New developments shall include provisions for emergency access
        as determined by the applicable Fire and Flood Control Districts.
     5. Landscaping. Landscaping shall utilize native or naturalized plant materials that
        provide wildlife food and shelter. Manicured landscaping and lawns are prohibited in
        riparian areas and setbacks.
     6. Bank and Channel. Bank or channel stabilization measures (e.g., rip-rap, drop
        structures, large cobble) shall include over-planting with shrubs and trees and the
        deliberate enhancement of fish habitat.
     7. Construction Fencing. Fencing shall be installed during construction activities that
        abut a riparian area.
  E. Setbacks
     1. Boise River Setback. Structures, parking areas, and fences shall be setback one
        hundred feet (100') from the boundary of the floodway, as defined in Section 8-2-28F,
        of the Boise River or five feet (5’) from the boundary of all dedications or easements
        granted to the County or other government entity for greenbelt or recreational purposes
        in excess of ninety-five feet (95’).
     2. Great Blue Heron Rookeries Setback. If Great Blue Heron Rookeries have been
        identified and mapped by Idaho Fish and Game Department, a three-hundred-foot
        (300’) setback, from the rookery location, applies to development within the Boise
        River Greenway.
     3. Bald Eagle Nest Setback. If Bald Eagle nests have been identified and documented by
        the County or Idaho Fish and Game Department, a two- hundred-foot (200’) setback,
        from the nest location, applies to development within the Boise River Greenway.
  F. Allowed Uses and Improvements. The following uses and improvements are allowed
     within the Boise River setback subject to the standards for uses, and/or mitigation and
     enhancement provisions that may be required by the County Engineer and set forth in this
     Chapter. All uses not explicitly listed are prohibited.
     1. Signs
     2. Restrooms
     3. River bridges and paved access to river bridges
     4. Fish and wildlife habitat improvements
     5. Irrigation weirs, diversion dams, and inlets
     6. Water inlets to supply domestic water
     7. Pedestrian paths that may provide limited access to the river
     8. Paved bicycle paths, limited to:
         a. Existing paths

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 61
             b. Future paths identified by the County Comprehensive Plan or Transportation Plan
             c. Where an existing railroad right-of-way is already located or that may be required,
                donated, or used as a bicycle path.
          9. Parks
          10. Bank and channel stabilization projects
          11. Hydro-electric and flood protection dams
          12. Public piers and beaches owned by the County, a municipality, or the State of Idaho
          13. Public utility lines such as water and sewer lines
          14. Storm drain outlets and detention basins
          15. Water pump facilities
          16. Gravel extraction needs to remove gravel deposits following a flood event.
   G. Permit Conditions. Conditions may be attached that:
          1. Require compliance with applicable specifications, standards or requirements of the
             Idaho Department of Water Resources, Army Corps of Engineers, the Idaho Fish and
             Game Department, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Environmental Protection Agency,
             Ada County, or other agencies.
          2. Require preservation of existing vegetation, and mitigation or enhancement of natural
             resources of this Chapter.
          3. Require landscaping consistent with the objectives of the extension of the natural
             setting of the river.
          4. Limit construction to certain periods of time.
          5. Require certification by a licensed engineer in the state of Idaho that conditions have
             been fulfilled.
8-2-30:      Hillside (HS) Overlay District
   A. Purpose. The purpose of the Hillside Overlay (HS) District is to:
          1. To provide for public safety and welfare in the development and design of building
             sites, roadways, and other service amenities;
          2. To preserve and enhance the hillside landscape by encouraging retention of natural
             features, such as drainage swales, streams, slopes, ridgelines, crests of hills, rock
             outcroppings, vistas, and natural formations;
          3. To provide safe ingress and egress for vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian traffic to and
             within the hillside areas, while at the same time minimizing the scarring effects of
             hillside development; and
          4. To use the planning, design, and engineering professions and the natural sciences
             including botany, biology, ecology, soils, and geology to mitigate potential hazards,
             and to enhance the existing and future appearance and resources of the hillsides.
   B. Applicability


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 62
     1. Trail development that does not exceed eight feet (8’) in width and three feet (3') cut,
        or three feet (3') fill shall be exempt from the provisions of this Section.
     2. Except for as allowed in subsection 1 of this Section, the regulations of this Section
        apply to any grading, filling, clearing, or excavation of any kind where slopes exceed
        twenty-five percent (25%).
     3. The Hillside areas shall be designated in two (2) levels:
        a. Level 1: Areas where the slope is at least twenty-five percent (25%).
        b. Level 2: Areas that meet Level 1 criteria and that have special hazard areas as
           described in subsection E.2.
  C. Application Requirements
     1. Application. An application, as set forth in Chapter 6 of this Title, shall be submitted
        to the Director on forms provided by the Development Services Department. Level 2
        requires all information described in subsection E.2 to the County Engineer and the
        Director.
     2. Preliminary Grading Plan. Levels 1 and 2 require a preliminary grading plan
        designed to ensure that the properties within the development are able to conform to
        the requirements of a final grading plan as set forth in subsection E. The following
        items shall be included in the preliminary grading plan:
        a. Contour lines at five-foot (5') intervals; the maximum allowable side slope on any
           cuts and fills is 2:1;
        b. The location of all proposed or existing structures and roads;
        c. Any areas of cut or fill;
        d. Any areas with characteristics listed in subsection E.2 of this Section; and
        e. A narrative indicating how the proposed design complies with the purpose
           statement of the Hillside Overlay District.
     3. Slope Stabilization and Revegetation Plan and Report. A licensed landscape design
        professional shall prepare the slope stabilization and revegetation plan. The report shall
        include a complete description of the existing soils, existing vegetation, the vegetation
        to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be planted, soils
        amendments and pH adjustments, and slope stabilization measures to be implemented.
        The plan shall include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations
        including the effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality, and fish and wildlife.
     4. Engineering Hydrology Report. A professional engineer registered in the state of
        Idaho shall complete an engineering hydrology investigation and report. This
        individual should be experienced and knowledgeable in the science of hydrology and
        in the techniques of hydrologic investigation. This report shall include the following
        information:
        a. An adequate description of the hydrology of the site, conclusions on the proposed
           development, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to
           be developed. The report shall include results of field investigations of the site,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 63
            unless existing information is determined by the County Engineer to be sufficient
            to satisfy the purpose of this Section.
        b. The Hydrology Report shall use the best available data and standard engineering
           practice.
     5. Soils Engineering Report. Any area proposed for development shall be investigated
        to determine the soil characteristics.
        a. This report shall include the following information:
            1. Data regarding the nature, distribution, and strength of soils.
            2. Conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria for
               corrective measures, and opinion and recommendations covering the adequacy
               of sites to be developed.
            3. Results of field investigations of the site unless existing information is
               determined by the County Engineer to be sufficient to satisfy the purpose of this
               Section.
        b. The investigation and report shall be completed by a professional engineer
           registered in the state of Idaho. This individual should be experienced and
           knowledgeable in the practice of soils mechanics.
        c. Recommendations included in the report shall be incorporated into the design plan
           and specifications.
     6. Engineering Geology Report. Any area proposed for development shall be
        investigated to determine its geological characteristics. This report shall include the
        following information:
        a. A description of the geology of the site, conclusions, and recommendations
           regarding the effect of geologic conditions on the proposed development, and the
           opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be developed. The
           report shall include results of field investigations of the site, unless existing
           information is determined by the County Engineer to be sufficient to satisfy the
           purpose of this Section.
        b. The investigation and report shall be completed by either a professional geologist
           registered in the state of Idaho or by a professional engineer registered in the state
           of Idaho. This individual should be experienced and knowledgeable in the
           principles and practices of engineering geology.
        c. Any area in which the investigation indicates geologic hazards shall not be
           developed unless the project engineer can demonstrate to the County Engineer,
           based on the required engineering reports, that these hazards can be overcome in
           such a manner as to prevent hazard to people, hazard to property, adverse effects
           on the safety, use or stability of a public way or waterway, and adverse impacts on
           the natural environment.
        d. Recommendations included in the report shall be incorporated into the design plan
           and specifications.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 64
     7. Visual Impact Report. This report shall be prepared by a licensed design professional
        in the state of Idaho and shall be submitted with the development application. The
        report shall include the following information:
        a. The view from key vantage points along public roadways or public viewing areas
           that depict the existing view (prior to development) and the proposed view (after
           development).
        b. Proposed screening methods such as architectural design, designated building
           envelopes, height restrictions, landscaping, fencing, construction materials, and
           colors.
        c. The existing vegetation and the proposed method of preserving and/or replacing
           such vegetation.
        d. A statement detailing how the proposed development or subdivision minimizes
           grading through careful site and roadway design.
     8. Other Pertinent Data. Any other pertinent data deemed necessary by the engineer of
        record or by the Director, after consulting with the engineer of record, to satisfy the
        stated purpose of this Section and that is reasonably related to the health, safety, and
        welfare of the general public and persons who might purchase the property being
        developed.
  D. Process
     1. The preliminary grading plan, prepared by the engineer of record, shall be submitted
        with the development application. The Director shall forward the preliminary grading
        plan and other documents required by this Section to the County Engineer for review
        and recommendation.
     2. Upon review of the study, the County Engineer shall forward a recommendation on the
        grading plan to the Director. The Director shall apply the standards listed in subsection
        E of this Section and the required findings listed in subsection F of this Section to
        determine whether or not to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the preliminary
        grading plan.
     3. No grading, filling, clearing, or excavation of any kind shall be initiated until the
        preliminary grading plan is approved by the Director, and the development has received
        final approval by the decision-making body. For subdivisions, Board approval of the
        preliminary plat is deemed the final approval.
     4. When required by the Director, special inspections and special testing shall be
        performed to verify conformance with this Section. The cost of special inspections and
        special testing shall be paid by the applicant or owner.
  E. Standards
     1. General Standards
        a.     Construction shall be scheduled to minimize soil disturbance between December
               1 and April 15.
        b.     The County Engineer may require the grading operation and/or project schedule


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 65
             be modified if delays occur which result in weather-generated problems not
             anticipated at the time approval was granted.
        c.   All development shall take into account land use planning, soil mechanics,
             hydrology, civil engineering, the environment, architectural and landscape design,
             and related disciplines as applied to hillside areas.
     2. Development of Special Hazard Areas. Any area that presents one or more of the
        following limiting factors shall not be permitted to develop unless the engineer of
        record can demonstrate to the County Engineer, based on the required engineering
        reports, that these limitations can be overcome in such a manner as to prevent hazard
        to life, hazard to property, adverse effects on the safety, use or stability of a public way
        or drainage channel, and adverse impact on the natural environment:
        a. Landslide areas or scarps, or areas of active landslides.
        b. Lines of active faults.
        c. Soils with a high shrinkage-expansion potential and hydro- compactible soils.
        d. Soils with unified classification of ML, CL, OL, MH, CH, OH, and Pt as listed in
           ASTM.
        e. Natural slopes greater than twenty five percent (25%).
        f. Water table within six feet (6') of the surface at any time of the year.
        g. Any area of hydrologic hazard as determined by the engineering hydrology report.
     3. Vegetation
        a. Vegetation shall be removed only when absolutely necessary, such as for the
           construction of structures, filled areas, roadways, firebreaks, or as required by this
           Title.
        b. An effort shall be made to conserve topsoil that is removed during construction for
           later use on areas requiring revegetation or landscaping, e.g., cut and fill slopes.
        c. Vegetation or a chemical or mechanical stabilization method sufficient to stabilize
           the soil shall be established on all disturbed areas, except for proposed rights of
           way, as each stage of grading is completed.
     4. Grading and Stabilization
        a. All retaining walls with a total vertical height of four feet (4') or more, including
           footing, shall be designed in accord with the regulations of the Ada County
           Building Code.
        b. All slopes that are stabilized by mechanical or chemical means shall conform to the
           surrounding terrain and shall be given aesthetic treatment that is consistent with the
           purpose of this Section.
        c. Large tracts shall be divided into smaller workable units on which construction can
           be completed within one construction season so that large areas are not left bare
           and exposed during the winter-spring runoff period.
        d. All disturbed soil surfaces shall be stabilized or covered prior to December 1. If the

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 66
           planned impervious surfaces (e.g., roadways, driveways, etc.) cannot be established
           prior to December 1, a temporary treatment adequate to prevent erosion shall be
           installed on those surfaces.
     5. Hydrologic Controls
        a. Curb and gutter, pavement, and appurtenant roadway drainage facilities shall be
           designed to control roadway runoff to accommodate the 100-year design storm.
        b. Watercourses shall be riprapped or otherwise stabilized below drainage and culvert
           discharge points for a distance sufficient to convey the discharge without channel
           erosion.
        c. Any material from construction, including soil and other material, shall not be
           deposited within any floodway or watercourse.
        d. All new water courses shall be designed to accommodate the 100-year design
           storm.
        e. With the exception of roadway crossings, approved drainage structures, and
           recreation and open space uses that do not involve the destruction of vegetative
           cover, development shall be prohibited within the 100-year floodplain for major
           watercourses.
     6. Sediment
        a. All construction must meet current EPA and IDEQ erosion and control rules.
        b. The overall drainage system shall be completed and made operational at the earliest
           possible time during construction. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued on
           the property until the drainage system is complete.
        c. Alterations of major watercourses shall be prohibited, except for approved roadway
           crossings and drainage structures.
        d. Natural or improved open channels shall be preserved, or provided for, in
           watercourses, except that at roadway crossings, conduits may be permitted.
     7. Roadways and Circulation
        a. Roadway alignments shall be designed to create the minimum feasible amounts of
           land coverage and the minimum feasible disturbance of the soil.
        b. Roadway alignments shall be designed to minimize removal of existing deep rooted
           perennial vegetation.
        c. Roadway alignments shall be designed to follow natural terrain.
        d. The width of the graded section shall extend five feet (5') beyond the travel right of
           way line on both the cut and fill sides of the roadway for slope rounding purposes.
           If a sidewalk is to be installed parallel to the roadway, the graded section shall be
           increased by the width of the sidewalk plus five feet (5') beyond the sidewalk.
        e. Combinations of collective private driveways, cluster parking areas, and on street
           parallel parking bays shall be used where possible to attempt to optimize the
           objectives of minimum soil disturbance and minimum impervious cover.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 67
        f. Approval of the applicable transportation authority is required for publicly
           dedicated streets.
        g. Paving shall commence within one year of County Engineer approval of a drainage
           study or drainage plan.
     8. Alternatives. The Director may approve, or recommend approval of, an alternative
        development proposal if:
        a. the overall design, as proposed, meets, or exceeds the intent and the requirements
           of this Section and shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare,
           or
        b. the project involves grading, filling, clearing, or excavation of less than four
           hundred (400) square feet.
     9. Maintenance. The owner of any private property on which grading or other work has
        been performed, pursuant to a grading plan approved subject to the regulations of this
        Section, shall maintain in perpetuity and repair all graded surfaces and erosion
        prevention devices, retaining walls, drainage structures, means, and devices not subject
        to the jurisdiction of the applicable transportation authority, and plantings and ground
        cover installed or completed. Such requirements shall be incorporated into the
        protective covenants for a subdivision and the conditions of approval for development
        applications.
  F. Required Findings
     1. The site is physically suitable for the design and siting of the proposed development.
        The proposed development shall result in minimum disturbance of hillside areas;
     2. The grading and excavation proposed in connection with the development shall not
        result in soil erosion, silting of lower slopes, slide damage, flooding, severe scarring,
        or any other geological instability or fire hazard that would adversely affect the public
        health, safety, and welfare;
     3. Areas not suited for development because of soil, geology, vegetation, or hydrology
        limitations are designated as open space use;
     4. Disruption of existing native vegetation and wildlife habitat is minimized; and
     5. The proposal sets forth sufficient and adequate mitigation for the identified visual
        impacts beyond the normally expected impact of hillside development.
  G. Waiver of Standards
     1. The Director, upon the recommendation of the County Engineer, has the authority to
        grant a waiver if the engineer of record can demonstrate conclusively that any of the
        standards required by this Section are not necessary in the proposed development, and
        that the omission of such requirements would not result in any of the following:
        a. Hazard to life.
        b. Hazard to property.
        c. Adverse effects on the safety, use, or stability of a public way or drainage channel.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 68
        d. Adverse impact on the natural environment.
     2. The request for a waiver of standards shall be in writing and shall state the reason for
        the request. The request shall be signed and have the professional seal of the engineer
        of record. The justification for the waiver shall be based on the engineering reports
        required in subsection C.
  H. Engineer of Record Responsibilities
     1. To ensure that the intent of this Section is attained through the principles and practices
        of civil engineering, the applicant or owner shall retain a professional engineer
        currently licensed in the state of Idaho to serve as the engineer of record. It shall be the
        responsibility of the engineer of record:
        a. To prepare the preliminary grading plan.
        b. To incorporate into the grading plans all recommendations contained in the soils,
           geology and hydrology reports, and the slope stabilization and revegetation plan
           and other reports as required in this Section.
        c. To inspect and certify all work within the project.
        d. To act as coordinating agent for liaison between other professionals, the owner, and
           the Director.
        e. To communicate any substantial plan changes due to field conditions with the final
           substantial completion letter.
     2. Prior to and during grading operations, the engineer of record shall submit all necessary
        reports, compaction data, soils, geology, and hydrology recommendations to the
        Director.
     3. If, in the course of fulfilling the specified responsibilities, the engineer of record
        discovers that the work is being accomplished to a substantially lesser standard than
        required by this Section or by the approved final grading plan, the noncompliance shall
        be reported in writing to the Director within three (3) working days with
        recommendations for corrective measures, if applicable. The Director may require
        corrective action within a specified period of time. If any deficiency is deemed by the
        Director to be an imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, that work shall
        be stopped immediately until such deficiencies are corrected.
     4. If the engineer of record, the soils engineer, the geologist, the professional landscape
        architect, or the hydrologist of record is replaced during the course of work, the work
        shall be stopped. Work may resume when the replacement individual has agreed to
        accept the responsibility for certifications of the work within the areas of their
        individual technical competence.
     5. If work is stopped during inclement weather, all open, and/or unfinished work on the
        project shall be protected to the satisfaction of the Director.
     6. At the conclusion of the approved work, the engineer of record shall submit a report to
        the Director stating that the work has been executed in compliance with the approved
        plans. The report shall have the signature and professional seal of the engineer of
        record.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 69
                                      CHAPTER 3
                                DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-3-1:          PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
8-3-2:          GENERAL STANDARDS
8-3-3:          ACCESS
8-3-4:          BUILDING DESIGN
8-3-5:          INFRASTRUCTURE
8-3-6:          FENCES
8-3-7:          LANDSCAPING
8-3-8:          LIGHTING
8-3-9:          OPEN SPACE
8-3-10:         PARKING AND LOADING
8-3-11:         PRIVATE ROADS
8-3-12:         SIGNS
8-3-1:      Purpose and Applicability
   A. Purpose. This Chapter establishes general regulations for all uses within base and overlay
      districts including specific regulations for access, building design, infrastructure,
      landscaping and screening, lighting, dedicated open space, parking and loading, private
      roads, and signs. See Chapter 4 for use standards.
   B. Applicability. The regulations of this Chapter generally apply to all development in
      unincorporated Ada County:
         1. Generally. Section 8-3-2 establishes general standards for all development.
         2. Access. Access shall comply with Section 8-3-3 of this Chapter.
         3. Building Design. Building design shall comply with Section 8-3-4 of this Chapter.
         4. Infrastructure. Infrastructure shall comply with Section 8-3-5 of this Chapter.
         5. Fences. Fences shall comply with Section 8-3-6 of this Chapter.
         6. Landscaping and Screening. Landscaping and screening shall comply with Section
            8-3-7 of this Chapter.
         7. Lighting. Exterior lighting shall comply with Section 8-3-8 of this Chapter.
         8. Dedicated Open Space. Dedicated open space uses in subdivisions and planned unit
            developments shall comply with Section 8-3-9 of this Chapter.
         9. Parking and Loading. Off-street parking and loading facilities shall comply with
            Section 8-3-10 of this Chapter.
         10. Private Roads. Private roads shall comply with Section 8-3-11 of this Chapter and the
             procedures in Chapter 6 of this Title.
         11. Signs. Signs shall comply with Section 8-3-12 of this Chapter.
8-3-2:      General Standards

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 70
  A. Accumulation of Junk
     1. Unless approved as a commercial junkyard, accumulation of junk on a property is only
        allowed on a property where a principally permitted junkyard use is lawfully
        established.
     2. Property owners shall not store an accumulation of junk outdoors on more than one
        acre or shall not exceed the maximum coverage allowed for the property, whichever
        standard is more restrictive.
     3. All outdoor storage of an accumulation of junk is subject to screening standards of
        Section 8-3-7E of this Chapter. However, requirements to screen abandoned farm
        equipment do not apply to farms in a rural district.
     4. An accumulation of junk shall not exceed the height of the sight obscuring screen.
  B. Atmospheric Emissions. All atmospheric emissions (including, but not limited to, smoke,
     gas, dust, odor, or other atmospheric pollutants), without respect to whether the emissions
     are created outside the structure in which the use is conducted or within a completely
     enclosed structure, requires a permit, as provided in Idaho Code Section 39-115, through
     the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare.
  C. Condominium Projects. All condominium projects shall comply with the requirements of
     any applicable base and overlay districts. If approved, the condominium project plat and
     declaration shall be certified by the County Surveyor and signed by the Board as provided
     in Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13 and Title 55, Chapter 15.
  D. Contiguous Parcels. Abutting parcels held in the same ownership are considered one
     property for development purposes unless the owner can demonstrate one of the following:
     1. The parcels comply with the regulations of this Title that were in effect at the time
        those parcels were recorded, and the parcels were originally conveyed and recorded
        under a single deed identifying each as a separate parcel;
     2. The parcels comply with the regulations of this Title that were in effect at the time
        those parcels were recorded, and the parcels were originally conveyed and recorded
        under separate deeds;
     3. Each of the abutting parcels is a conforming or nonconforming property as defined in
        Chapter 7 of this Title; or
     4. Physical characteristics of the property prevent its use as one unit, for example, the
        properties are separated by a fee simple ownership and/or the properties are separated
        by a public right of way, public street, or irrigation canal.
  E. Construction Sites. New development shall contain construction debris on site and
     prevent windblown debris from entering neighboring properties.
  F. Dimensional Standards. Dimensional standards and required yards are established for
     each base district established in Chapter 2 of this Title.
     1. Minimum Area and Dimension Requirements
         1. No property size, yard, parking area, or other space shall be reduced in area or
            dimension to make that area or dimension less than the minimum required.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 71
        2. If already less than the minimum required by this Title, that area or dimension shall
           not be further reduced.
        3. This provision does not apply to non-buildable properties including, but not limited
           to, landscape lots, lots for private roads, drainage facilities, pump stations, metering
           stations and transmission/distribution substations.
     2. Setbacks
        1. Approved signs are exempt from the setback requirements of Chapter 2 of this Title.
        2. Corner lot setback determination.
            1. The front yard setback is required along the property line where the driveway
               enters the property. The side yard setback shall be provided along the side street
               property line as applicable to the roadway classification.
            2. The rear yard setback shall be provided either along the interior side property
               line or rear property line. The side yard setback shall be provided along the
               remaining property line (rear or interior side) as applicable.
     3. Zero Lot Line Setback Development. Zero lot line development may be allowed in
        the R2, R4, R6, R8, R12, and R20 districts. For developments containing multiple zero
        lot line setbacks, reduced setback and street frontage requirements may be applied for
        concurrent with a preliminary plat application subject to the following standards:
        1. The preliminary and final plats shall designate a building envelope for each
           property with a zero-lot line or abutting a zero-lot line setback.
        2. In no case shall a zero-lot line setback be allowed adjacent to a property line that is
           not part of the subdivision.
        3. Within the R12 and R20 districts, no lot shall have more than two (2) zero lot line
           setbacks.
        4. For zero lot line developments within the R2, R4, R6, R8, R12, and R20 districts,
           reduced street frontage, up to twenty percent (20%) below the district standard, may
           be requested.
     4. Required Yards. The front, side, and rear required yards shall not be occupied by any
        use or structure except for: fencing (see Section 8-3-6 of this Chapter for specific fence
        standards); landscaping; off street parking; drives; streets; signs; lighting; detached
        accessory structures two hundred (200) square feet or less in size and under ten feet
        (10') in height may be located in side and/or rear required yards only; patios; walkways;
        retaining walls; and/or certain architectural features as detailed below (see Figure 8-3-
        2-1 Projections in Required Yards):
        1. Where the required setback is greater than ten feet (10').
            1. Cornices, canopies, eaves, or other architectural features shall not project more
               than two and a half feet (2.5’) into the required yard.
            2. Fire escapes shall not project more than four and a half feet (4.5’) into the
               required yard.
            3. Bay windows, balconies, and chimneys shall not project more than three feet

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 72
                     (3') into the required yard if those features do not occupy, in the aggregate, more
                     than one-third (1/3) of the building wall on which they are located.
Figure 8-3-2-1 Projections in Required Yards




         5. The property complies with the minimum property size of the base and overlay
            districts.
   G. Transmission Line Corridors. All wire fences, metal structures, and metal objects within
      one hundred feet (100') of transmission lines shall be grounded.
8-3-3:      Access
   A. Development shall only be approved on a property that meets the minimum dimensional
      standards of the base and overlay districts, unless otherwise allowed by this Title.
         1. When a property takes access from a private road, the terminus of which is located
            within the property, the required frontage shall be thirty feet (30') or the width of the
            private road easement. Where the required setback is ten feet (10') or less.
            a. Cornices, canopies, eaves, or other architectural features shall not project a distance
               more than two feet (2') into the required yard.
            b. Fire escapes shall not project more than two feet (2') into the required yard.
            c. Bay windows, balconies, and chimneys shall not project more than two feet (2')
               into the required yard if those features do not occupy, in the aggregate, more than
               one-third (1/3) of the building wall on which they are located.
   B. Height Limit Measurement. Chapter 10 describes how structure height is measured.
   C. Height Limit Exceptions. The maximum height limitation established in the applicable
      base district do not apply to:
         1. Agricultural Structures
         2. Chimney or Smokestack


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 73
        a. Chimney or smokestack architectural features have a sixty foot (60’) maximum
           height limit.
        b. A maximum height that exceeds sixty feet (60') may be allowed by variance or if
           specifically authorized as a component of a conditional use permit, subject to the
           standards identified in subsection e of this Section.
     3. Spire, Steeple, Belfry, or Cupola
        a. Spire, steeple, belfry, or cupola architectural features have a sixty feet (60')
           maximum height limit.
        b. The maximum height limit may be increased to eighty feet (80') if the architectural
           feature is found by the Director to comply with the standards identified in
           subsection e of this Section in conjunction with a review of a master site plan or
           building permit for the building to which the feature will be attached.
        c. A maximum height that exceeds eighty feet (80') may be allowed by variance or if
           specifically authorized as a component of a conditional use permit, subject to the
           standards identified in subsection e of this Section.
     4. Institutional Uses. Institutional uses (including church, hospital, public or quasi-public
        use, and school, public or private) that require conditional use approval may exceed the
        maximum height limitation prescribed by the applicable zoning base district if
        specifically authorized as a component of a conditional use permit; and subject to the
        standards identified in subsection F.4.e of this section.
     5. Towers, Commercial and Private. The following types of tower structures may
        exceed the maximum height limitation of the applicable base district subject to
        applicable specific use standards:
        a. Amateur Radio Antenna;
        b. Distributed Power Facility-Wind Freestanding Tower;
        c. Water Tower;
        d. Fire and Hose Tower;
        e. Observation Tower;
        f. Power Line Tower;
        g. Radio Tower;
        h. Paging Facility;
        i. Cellular Phone Facility;
        j. Cellular Tower;
        k. Television Tower;
        l. Bridge Tower; or
        m. Other Commercial or Personal Tower and/or Antenna Structure.
     4. Architectural Feature Standards. An architectural feature(s) listed in subsections 8-


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 74
         3-2F.4.d(2) or 8-3-2F.4.d(3) of this Section which exceeds sixty feet (60') in height
         shall comply with the following standards:
         a. The mass of the architectural feature is in visual proportion and scale with the
            building to which it is attached;
         b. The exterior materials and colors of the architectural feature are appropriate to its
            mass, and are visually complementary with the building to which it is attached;
         c. The architectural feature does not significantly impede views from adjacent
            properties;
         d. The architectural feature does not include a sign; and
         e. Lighting of the architectural feature is limited to indirect lighting.
  D. Grading. No grading, filling, clearing, or excavation of any kind, excluding grading
     associated with an agricultural use, shall initiate without County Engineer approval of a
     drainage study or drainage plan (see Section 8-3-5B of this Chapter), and as applicable, an
     approved hillside application (see Section 8-2-30 of this Title).
  E. Hazardous Material Storage. The storage of any hazardous materials, as defined by Title
     40 code of Federal Regulations part 261, or subsequent amendments, requires a list of those
     materials to be submitted to the Ada County Sheriff's Office, the Ada County Emergency
     Medical Services, the Ada County Development Services Department, the applicable fire
     district, and the Ada City-County Emergency Management Office, prior to issuance of a
     zoning certificate.
  F. Outdoor Public Address System
     1. Outdoor public address systems or speakers for nonresidential uses are only allowed
        within the C2, M2, and M3 districts, or as part of an approved master site plan,
        accessory use, or conditional use.
     2. The outdoor public address system shall comply with Section 5-13-3 (Noise-Prohibited
        Acts) of the Ada County Code.
  G. Outdoor Storage of Chemicals and Fertilizers
     1. The outdoor storage of chemicals and fertilizers including, but not limited to, salts or
        other minerals, are prohibited.
     2. Also see subsection 8-3-7E.4 of this Chapter for screening standards for outdoor
        storage areas.
  H. Property Created by Court Decree. Any property created by court decree is recognized
     as a property for transfer of ownership and is eligible for development (including any
     building permits for renovation or repair of an existing structure) only if it complies with
     all applicable regulations of this Title (including, but not limited to, Chapter 2 and Section
     8-6-21 [One-Time Division], and Chapter 5 of this Title).
  I. Pipeline Corridors. For any property for which there is a pipeline corridor easement
     (including, but not limited to, the Northwest Pipeline and Chevron Pipeline), appropriate
     setbacks from the pipeline facility shall be provided as determined by the easement holder.
  J. Property Reduced by Governmental Action. If a governmental action (such as

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 75
         acquisition through prescription, purchase, or other means by Ada County, a municipality
         within Ada County, the Ada County Highway District, Idaho Transportation Department,
         utility company or corporation under the jurisdiction of the Idaho Public Utilities
         Commission, or other local, state, or federal agency) reduces an existing property below
         the required property size, the remaining property shall be deemed as a conforming
         property for the purposes of development. See also Section 8-7-4 (Nonconforming
         Properties) of this Title.
   K. Renovation, Repair, Expansion, or Replacement of Dwelling. A zoning certificate for
      the renovation, repair, expansion, or replacement of a dwelling (including any existing or
      proposed accessory structures) may be issued to a property that meets the following
      criteria:
         1. Has the required frontage and access onto either a public or an approved private road,
            or;
         2. An easement, recorded prior to May 20, 1968, that is at least twenty feet (20') wide,
            provides access to the property; and
         3. The property was of record in the Ada County Recorder's Office prior to January 1,
            1985; and
         4. The property contains a dwelling that conforms to all applicable codes and/or
            ordinances; and
   J. Access shall be taken from the required frontage unless the property also has frontage on
      an alley or an approved private road.
   K. Multi-family, commercial or industrial developments may be exempt from this
      requirement if the development meets the standards for continuous service drive outlined
      in subsection 8-3-10D.3 of this Chapter.
8-3-4:      Building Design
   A. Purpose. For structures where the footprint is greater than ten thousand (10,000) square
      feet, the structure shall be designed such that the building mass and bulk are distributed.
      The following standards do not apply to dwellings or agricultural structures:
   B. Distribution. Mechanisms for distribution include, but are not limited to, one or more of
      the following:
         1. Variation in the horizontal offsets of the structure facade.
            a. Facades greater than one hundred feet (100') in length must incorporate recesses
               and projections along a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the length of the
               facade.
            b. Windows, awnings, and arcades must total a minimum of sixty percent (60%) of the
               facade length abutting a public street.
         2. Variation in the height of a minimum of five feet (5').
         3. Changes in the grade of a minimum of three feet (3').
         4. Variation in rooflines.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 76
   C. Maximum Footprint. The maximum footprint area for the distributed portions of the
      structure is ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   D. Minimum Footprint. The minimum footprint area for the distributed portions of the
      structure is one thousand (1,000) square feet.
Figure 8-3-4-1 Building Design




8-3-5:      Infrastructure
   A. Surety Agreements
         1. Surety Deposit
            a. In lieu of completion of the improvements listed in this Section or required as a
               condition of any zoning or subdivision plat approval, the owner may deposit a
               surety and sign a surety agreement for their completion. The owner shall deposit
               the surety and surety agreement improvements with the Director on forms provided
               by the Development Services Department.
            b. The amount of surety shall equal at least one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the
               cost of completing the required improvements. The estimated cost shall be
               reviewed and approved by the County Engineer.
            c. The surety shall be drawn solely in favor of, and payable to, the order of the County
               of Ada, in accordance with the regulations contained in the surety agreement by
               and between the guarantor and the County of Ada.
         2. Release of Surety. The following regulations apply to the release of a surety accepted
            and deposited as provided in subsection 1:
            a. The owner shall submit a written request to the Director to return the surety. The
               request shall include the following documents:
                1. A statement from the owner that the required improvements are complete.
                2. Two (2) sets of prints of the as-built plans and specifications for all
                   improvements.
            b. The Director shall verify and certify that the required improvements, as detailed in

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 77
             the surety agreement, are installed.
         c. The Director shall review and approve the as-built plans.
         d. Upon certification, the Director shall give notice to the County Treasurer to release
            the sureties deposited with the County Treasurer in the manner and to the extent as
            provided for in the surety agreement in accord with the regulations of subsection 1
            above.
  B. Drainage. All required drainage studies and drainage plans shall be based upon peak and
     total discharge estimates and shall be submitted by a professional engineer licensed in the
     state of Idaho.
     1. Drainage Study
         a. The drainage study shall identify the essential elements, alignments, and functions
            of a drainage system.
         b. The drainage study shall show the following site conditions:
             1. Details of existing site drainage and/or irrigation features including, but not
                 limited to, ditches, watercourses, and drainage structures;
             2. The permeability and types of soils and geologic materials;
             3. The size of the drainage basin upstream;
             4. The topography, slope, and geometry of the site;
             5. The proximity of surface water within one hundred feet (100');
             6. The proximity of potable water supply wells within one hundred feet (100');
             7. The proposed use and potential contaminants; and
             8. The past use and possible soil and/or ground water contamination.
         c. Other supplemental data required by the County Engineer.
         d. The drainage study requirement is also met if the study information required is
            shown on the drainage plan.
     2. Drainage Plan
         a. When a condition of approval requires approval of a drainage plan by the County
            Engineer, a drainage plan shall be submitted to the Director that has been prepared
            by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho for design approval by the
            County Engineer prior to issuance of a zoning certificate.
         b. The drainage plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include, but not be limited to,
            the following:
             1. All proposed grading on the property;
             2. Essential elements, alignments, and functions of the proposed drainage system
                including, but not limited to, sewers, storm drains, catch basins, pumps, and
                seepage beds;
             3. The drainage plan shall indicate by flow arrows, contours, spot elevations, or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 78
                 some other acceptable manner, where storm water will be routed for the
                 property. It must show the location and size of any flows onto the site from
                 outside the property boundaries as well as any discharges leaving the site;
             4. The proposed use and potential contaminants;
             5. When drainage courses and irrigation facilities exist on site, documentary
                evidence of consent to re-routings by all interested landowners and drainage
                and irrigation entities affected and having rights to, and in, those facilities shall
                be provided; and
             6. Other supplemental data required by the County Engineer.
  C. Utilities
     1. All utilities shall be installed underground for a new dwelling or approved use.
     2. For the purposes of this Section, the term "utilities" include, but are not limited to,
        electric, natural gas, water, wastewater collection, storm drainage, telephone, and cable
        services.
     3. Agricultural structures are exempt from this regulation.
  D. Sewage Disposal and Water. Options for sewage disposal facilities shall include the
     following methods:
     1. New development located within an urban service planning area or within a planned
        community shall be served by sewage disposal facilities that have sufficient available
        capacity to serve the development.
     2. Other new developments shall be served by an on-site individual wastewater treatment
        system and an on-site well, both of which have been approved by the Idaho Department
        of Water Resources and Central District Health Department.
     3. If an existing wastewater treatment system fails, as determined by the Central District
        Health Department, the property owner(s) shall connect to a city's or sewer district's
        wastewater collection and treatment system, if a collection line is located within three
        hundred feet (300'). If a collection line is not located within three hundred feet (300'),
        then the existing wastewater treatment system may be replaced with a system approved
        by the Central District Health Department.
     4. If an existing community well fails, the property owner(s) shall connect to a city's,
        water district's, or utility's water system if a distribution line is located within three
        hundred feet (300'). If a distribution line is not located within three hundred feet (300'),
        then the community well may be replaced with a water system approved by the Central
        District Health Department and Idaho Department of Water Resources.
  E. Water
     1. Purpose. These regulations minimize the development impacts on water resources,
        such as water supply, consumption, and quality.
     2. Applicability. These regulations apply to all new development, including but not
        limited to residential, commercial, and industrial development.
     3. Exemptions. The following uses are exempt from these regulations:

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 79
            a. All agricultural uses; and
            b. Existing uses prior to the effective date of this Title.
         4. Water Conservation Measures
            a. Watering Restrictions. All watering for yards and landscaped areas shall occur
               between the hours of 5:00 pm and 10:00 am.
            b. Rainwater Harvesting. Rainwater harvesting includes, but is not limited to,
               cisterns and rain barrels.
                1. All commercial and industrial structures over ten thousand (10,000) square feet
                   require the use of rainwater harvesting techniques.
                2. All single-family residences greater than twenty-five thousand (2,500) square
                   feet require the use of rainwater harvesting techniques.
                3. Cisterns and rain barrel design shall store at least forty (40) gallons of water.
                4. Harvested rainwater from cisterns and rain barrels may be used for irrigating
                   landscaped areas, flushing toilets, or pressure washing.
            c. Pervious Pavement
                1. Pervious pavement includes, but is not limited to, porous asphalt, pervious
                   concrete, and grass or permeable pavers.
                2. Pervious pavement is allowed as surface for parking areas. The permeability of
                   pervious pavement in any drainage study required by subsection B above may
                   be considered.
         5. Green Infrastructure. Green stormwater infrastructure (GSI) techniques, rainwater
            harvesting, or pervious pavement techniques may be incorporated in any building,
            surface parking area, or street. These measures may be used to reduce the rate and
            volume of stormwater runoff and required drainage improvements if the County
            Engineer determines that:
            a. The application demonstrates that the improvements will reduce stormwater
               demands, using generally accepted engineering principles;
            b. A maintenance plan has been provided that ensures the adequate ongoing
               maintenance of those facilities; and
            c. The maintenance plan ensures that the improvements will continue to control the
               rate and volume of stormwater runoff as shown in the application.
8-3-6:      Fences
   A. Purpose. This Section provides standards on the types, construction, installation, and uses
      of fences.
   B. Clear Vision Triangle. No sight-obscuring fence, hedge, wall, latticework, or screen shall
      violate the clear vision triangle requirements (see definition in Chapter 10) at a street
      intersection.
   C. Barbed Wire/Electric Wire. Barbed wire and electric wire fencing shall only be allowed


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 80
         on properties that meet one or more of the following standards:
         1. The property is a “farm,” as herein defined;
         2. The property is in the RP, RR, or RUT base districts;
         3. The property has a livestock confinement facility with more than three hundred (300)
            animals; or
         4. The use of barbed wire and/or electric wire fencing was allowed as part of an approved
            use where security fencing was proposed.
   D. Height in Areas of City Impact. On properties one (1) acre in size or less and located
      within an area of city impact, no fence, wall, latticework, or screen shall be erected over
      three feet (3’) in height within the required front yard plane.
   E. Height on Lot. Fences, walls, latticework, or screens:
         1. Are allowed within or outside of any setback, and
         2. Shall not exceed a height of six feet (6’) above grade on the perimeter boundary or
            within any required setback area, unless approved by a variance by the Board or as part
            of an approved use: and
         3. For a public facility may exceed six feet (6’) above grade without a variance but shall
            not exceed a height of twelve feet (12’) above grade.
   F. Building Permit Required. Fences, walls, latticework, or screens that exceed six feet (6’)
      in height require a building permit with construction drawings prepared by a qualified and
      licensed engineer or architect in the state of Idaho.
   G. Maintenance. Any sight-obscuring fence, or wall, latticework, or screen that is required
      by this Title to protect adjacent properties, said fence, wall, latticework, or screen shall be
      maintained in good repair.
   H. Security Fencing. Security fencing that is not associated with an agricultural use, public
      facility, or a livestock confinement facility, utilizing barbed wire or electric wire, shall only
      be used as the top section of the fencing and shall be a minimum of six feet (6’) above
      grade.
8-3-7:      Landscaping
   A. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to:
         1. Ensure development consistent with the goals of the applicable comprehensive plan
            related to community design;
         2. Enhance the aesthetic appearance of streets, parking areas, and development sites and
            visually screen and buffer incompatible land uses;
         3. Preserve existing healthy trees and rare plants;
         4. Encourage the use of native species and drought tolerant landscape materials with the
            intent to maintain wildlife habitat areas and conserve water;
         5. Break up large areas of pavement, and provide shade in parking areas and around
            structures with the intent to promote energy conservation;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 81
     6. Provide pervious surface areas to minimize storm water runoff and promote ground
        water recharge; and
     7. Separate pedestrians from automobile fumes, noise, and dust, and reduce glare from
        vehicle headlights.
  B. Applicability
     1. The standards in this Section apply to all projects requiring master site plan review
        unless otherwise exempt under subsection B.2 below.
     2. All principally permitted and accessory uses in the rural base districts as listed in
        Section 8-2-23 (Use Table) of this Title are exempt from these regulations.
        Requirements of this Section may be waived or modified for conditional uses in the
        rural base districts (see conditional use procedures in Chapter 6 of this Title).
  C. Process
     1. A landscape and screening plan shall be required as a component of a master site plan.
        a. Within an area of city impact, the landscape and screening plan shall be prepared
           by a licensed landscape design professional such as a landscape architect.
        b. The landscape and screening plan shall contain the following items:
            1. The location, size, and type of all proposed landscaping and screening materials
               (including a plant list detailing common and botanic names of all species), and
               verification that minimum landscaping and screening requirements have been
               satisfied. All plants shall be shown at seventy five percent (75%) mature
               growth.
            2. Existing vegetation to be saved shall be identified on the landscaping and
               screening plan along with protection measures to be used during grading and
               construction.
            3. If the proposed development project shall be completed in phases, the phases
               shall be noted on the landscape and screening plan.
     2. Landscaping and screening shall be in accord with the approved landscaping and
        screening plan, by the beginning of the next planting season for that species after
        issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the project. The Director may extend the time
        limit for compliance up to one additional planting season after issuance of a certificate
        of occupancy when circumstances beyond the control of the applicant or owner warrant
        an extension.
  D. General Landscaping Standards
     1. For the purposes of this Section, landscaping elements shall mean all exterior
        enhancements of a project including, but not be limited to: deciduous trees (shade and
        ornamental), evergreen trees, sidewalks, paths, site furniture, trellis, fences, walls,
        sound walls, shrubs, flowering plants, vines, pots, vases, window boxes, raised
        planters, and grade work such as berms, grassy swales, and water retention features.
     2. Existing trees, native vegetation, and existing rare plants shall be retained wherever
        possible.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 82
        a. Existing native vegetation may be accepted in lieu of new plantings, provided they
           contribute to achieving the intent of this Section.
        b. To control erosion and soil loss, the existing vegetation shall only be removed from
           the current phase of the project.
     3. All existing trees six-inch (6”) caliper or larger proposed for removal on any new or
        infill development shall be mitigated at the following rate:

              Table 8-3-7-1: Tree Removal Rate Standards.

                Tree to be removed                 Replace with
                6” to 12” caliper tree             One 3” caliper min. tree
                12” to 24” caliper tree            Two 3” caliper min. trees
                24” or larger caliper tree         Three 3” caliper min. trees


     4. Landscaped areas shall incorporate a hierarchy of plantings from ground covers to
        shrubs to trees. Shrub areas shall incorporate a vegetative ground cover wherever
        possible. If the site configuration or plant type prohibits the use of a ground cover in
        conjunction with the shrubs, shredded tree bark or other mulch shall be provided.
     5. The landscape plan shall include plant material that provides seasonal color during the
        spring, summer, and fall.
     6. All landscaping shall be designed to consider the microclimate of the site and
        surrounding properties by addressing sun, shade, and wind for increased energy
        efficiency.
        a. Deciduous trees shall be the preferred method of providing shade in parking lots
           and around structures.
        b. Evergreen trees shall be located with adequate space to accommodate mature
           spread at the base and primarily used for screening and accent purposes.
        c. If unenclosed air conditioning systems are located on the west or south side of a
           structure, trees shall be planted so that, at maturity, they shade the unit during the
           months of July, August, and September.
        d. Trees shall be planted so that, at maturity, they shade fifty percent (50%) of ground
           floor window surfaces on the west and south sides of each structure during the
           months of July, August, and September.
     7. All landscaping shall be designed to be waterwise per the suggested plant list provided
        by Ada County.
            a. The use of native and low-water and native plant material is highly encouraged.
            b. Plants shall be grouped into hydrozones based on similar water needs to
               minimize the unnecessary use of water plants with low water needs.
            c. High water-use plant material such as bluegrass lawn shall comprise no more
               than fifty percent (50%) of any landscape area.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 83
     8. Landscaping elements shall not violate the clear vision triangle requirements at a street
        intersection as defined in this Title (see Chapter 10).
     9. Landscaping elements shall not violate the clear pathway of a pedestrian or bicycle
        facility.
     10. If the subject property is within a flood hazard overlay district or wildland-urban
         interface overlay district, a landscaping and screening plan may be proposed that
         meets the intent of this Section in addition to complying with the standards of Section
         8-2-28 (Flood Hazard Overlay District) and Section 8-2-25 (Wildland-Urban
         Interface Overlay District).
     11. Installation of required landscaping shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
           a. All plant material shall be planted according to industry standards, using
              acceptable topsoil, or incorporating organic soil amendment at a rate of three
              cubic yards per one thousand square feet (3 cy/1000 sf).
           b. All proposed plant material shall be in accord with the American Association of
              Nurserymen standards in terms of size, character, and quality.
           c. Trees planted within a sidewalk or other pedestrian traffic areas shall be installed
              with protective tree grates with expandable centers. The minimum size opening
              within the sidewalk shall be four feet by eight feet (4' x 8').
           d. The following minimum plant sizes are required:

 Table 8-3-7-2: Minimum Plant Size Standards

  Landscape Element (Plants)            Minimum Size at Planting
  Shade tree                            2-inch caliper
  Ornamental tree                       2-inch caliper
  Evergreen tree                        7.5 feet in height
  Shrub                                 5-gallon container
  Parking lot shrub                     5-gallon container
  Perennial or ornamental grass         1 gallon container
  Note: Caliper shall refer to the trunk diameter as measured 6 inches above ground level.

           e. All landscaped areas shall be provided with a permanent and automated
              underground irrigation system of such design and capacity to satisfactorily serve
              the landscaped areas.
     12. Maintenance and replacement of required landscaping and screening shall be the
         responsibility of the property owner.
          a. All plant materials shall be pruned, trimmed, watered, and otherwise maintained to
             create an attractive appearance and a healthy growing condition. No trees shall be
             severely pruned or topped.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 84
          b. Dead, diseased, stolen, or vandalized plant materials shall be replaced by the next
             planting season.
          c. Property owners shall keep landscaped areas free of weeds and trash.
          d. Stolen, vandalized, or otherwise damaged fences and/or walls shall be replaced
             immediately. Fences and/or walls shall be maintained to create an attractive
             appearance.
   E. General Screening Standards
       1. Screening Elements. For the purposes of this Section, screening elements shall
          include, but not be limited to, deciduous trees (shade and ornamental), evergreen trees,
          berms, solid fences, walls, and sound walls. Cyclone or chain link fencing (with or
          without slats) shall not be deemed a screening material.
       2. Solid Fence or Sound Wall. Where a solid fence, wall, or sound wall is used for
          screening, the landscape plan shall incorporate vegetative materials along the length of
          the solid fence or sound wall at the following rate:
          a. A minimum of one deciduous tree per fifty linear feet (50’).
          b. Shrubs at a rate of ten small to medium shrubs or five large shrubs per fifty linear
             feet (50’).
          c. Columnar evergreen trees and shrubs are encouraged to be placed between
             deciduous trees.

Figure 8-3-7-1 Landscaping of Solid Fences or Sound Walls




       3. Trash Dumpsters. Trash dumpsters shall be fenced or enclosed and screened from
          public view. The sight obscuring screen shall be at least six feet (6'), but not greater
          than ten feet (10'), in height. One side of the enclosure may be left unenclosed or
          unscreened, provided that the trash dumpster shall not be visible from a public roadway
          or an abutting property.
       4. Outdoor Storage Areas. All outdoor storage areas shall be completely fenced or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 85
        enclosed and screened from public view. The sight obscuring screen shall be at least
        six feet (6'), but not greater than ten feet (10') in height. One side of the outdoor storage
        area may be left unenclosed or unscreened, provided that the materials stored in the
        area shall not be visible from a public roadway or an abutting property.
     5. Loading Areas. Loading areas (including, but not limited to, loading spaces, loading
        docks, and service or maintenance areas) shall be screened from public view. In
        addition, loading areas that abut a residential district shall attenuate noise associated
        with such use by providing a sound wall and/or berm with screen plantings around the
        loading areas or at the property line abutting the residential district. Planting shall be in
        conformance with subsection 8-3-7E.2 above.
     6. Berm Slopes. Berm slopes shall not exceed a rise to run ratio of one to two (1:2) and
        shall be a minimum of three feet (3') in height.
     7. Sound Walls
        a. Sound walls shall meet all the following construction standards (see Figure 8-3-7-
           2 Sound Walls):
            1. The wall shall be tall enough to break the line of sight from the noise emitter
               and the noise receiver on abutting property.
            2. There shall be no break in the barrier between the noise emitter and the noise
               receiver on the abutting property.
            3. The wall shall be constructed of a rigid, dense material that provides a noise
               reduction of ten (10) dBA greater than the expected reduction in the noise
               diffracted over the top of the barrier as certified by a qualified engineer or
               architect licensed in the State of Idaho.
        b. For the purposes of this Section, the location, height, and direction of the noise
           emitter and the location and height of the noise receiver on the abutting property
           shall be determined as follows:
            1. For outdoor address systems, the noise emitter shall be at the height and location
               of the speaker and in the direction that the speaker is oriented.
            2. For parking lots, the noise emitter shall be at a height of four feet (4') at any
               location where an automobile may travel and six feet (6') at any location where
               a truck or trailer may travel. The noise shall be measured in all directions that
               are not otherwise attenuated by a structure.
            3. For loading areas, the noise emitter shall be at a height of six feet (6') above the
               floor of the loading dock. The noise shall be measured in all directions that are
               not otherwise attenuated by a structure.
            4. The noise receiver on the abutting property with an existing structure shall be
               at a height of six feet (6') above the floor (including upper floors, if applicable)
               of the structure and any outdoor patio area.
            5. The noise receiver on the abutting property where there is no existing structure
               shall be set at a height of six feet (6') at any location where a structure can be
               built.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 86
Figure 8-3-7-2 Sound Walls




       8. Within an area of city impact, expanses of walls or solid fences that are greater than
          one hundred feet (100') along a roadway shall be interrupted with offsets and provided
          with accents to prevent monotony (see Figure. 8-3-7-3 Solid Fence Offsets).
          a. For the purposes of this standard, accents shall include, but not be limited to, other
             landscape elements as listed in subsection D of this Section.
          b. Offsets shall be designed with pedestrian safety in mind, such as small alcoves with
             angled sides that provide full visibility.
Figure 8-3-7-3 Solid Fence Offsets




   F. Perimeter Landscaping and Screening
       1. Purpose. The intent of this Section is for landscaping and screening standards required
          along the perimeter of the property. Table 8-3-7-3 Minimum Required Depth and Plant
          Material of this Section specifies the standards for the minimum depth and minimum
          number of trees and shrubs per one hundred linear feet (100’) as measured along the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 87
          property line.
       2. Property Lines That Do Not Abut a Roadway. All principally permitted and
          accessory uses in the RP, RR, RUT, R1, R2, R4, R6 and R8 base districts as listed in
          Section 8-2-23 (Use Table) of this Title shall be exempt from these regulations.
          Conditional uses in the RP, RR, RUT, R1, R2, R4, R6 and R8 base districts as listed in
          Section 8-2-23 (Use Table) of this Title shall require a perimeter buffer where the
          property subject to a development application contains a commercial or industrial use.
          Where the dimensional standards for the base district of the subject property require
          side and/or rear setbacks of ten feet (10') or more, a perimeter landscape area will be
          required to be located on the property subject to development application per the
          following:
          a. Abutting a residential district, a minimum of one (1) deciduous tree and ten (10)
             small shrubs or five (5) large shrubs shall be provided per fifty linear feet (50’).

Figure 8-3-7-4 Perimeter Landscaping Abutting a Residential District




          b. Abutting a rural, commercial, or industrial district, a minimum one (1) deciduous
             tree and ten (10) small shrubs or five (5) large shrubs shall be provided per one
             hundred linear feet (100’).




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 88
Figure 8-3-7-5 Perimeter Landscaping Abutting a Rural, Commercial, or Industrial District




          c. Alternatively, a solid fence with a minimum height of six feet (6’) may replace the
             shrub requirement.
          d. The Director may waive perimeter landscaping requirements along portions of
             property lines not abutting a roadway where needed to accommodate construction
             of vehicular cross-access across property lines and where cross-access easements
             to adjacent properties are provided.
       3. Property Lines That Abut a Roadway. Entryway corridors shall be as identified in
          the applicable comprehensive plan. Interstate, arterial, collector, and local streets shall
          be as identified by the Ada County long range highway and street map functional street
          classification system.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 89
Table 8-3-7-3 Minimum Required Depth and Plant Material

   Classification of Street Abutting Subject       Minimum Depth Minimum Number              Minimum Number of
   Property                                        of Landscaped of Trees Per One            Shrubs Per One
                                                   Area          Hundred Linear              Hundred Linear Feet
                                                                 Feet
   Entryway corridor                               30 feet       3 deciduous                 20 small shrubs or
                                                                 trees                       ornamental grasses
                                                                                             and 6 large shrubs
   Interstate abutting residential district        50 feet 1           2 deciduous           20 large shrubs
                                                                       trees and 3
                                                                       evergreen trees
   Classification of Street Abutting               Minimum             Minimum Number        Minimum Number of
   Subject Property                                Depth of            of Trees Per One      Shrubs Per One
                                                   Landscaped                                Hundred Linear Area
                                                                       Hundred Linear
                                                                                             Feet
                                                                       Feet
   Interstate abutting rural, transitional,        25 feet             2 deciduous           10 small shrubs or
   commercial, or industrial district                                  trees and 2           ornamental grasses and
                                                                       evergreen trees       10 large shrubs
   Arterial, collector, or local street abutting   20 feet             3 deciduous           20 small shrubs or
   rural, transitional, or residential district                        trees                 ornamental grasses
                                                                                             and 6 large shrubs
   Arterial, collector, or local street abutting   10 feet             3 deciduous           20 small shrubs or
   commercial or industrial district                                   trees                 ornamental grasses
   Private road                                    5 feet              2 deciduous           NA
                                                                       trees
   1
   This standard may be reduced where a sound wall is provided that mitigates noise levels to a comparable level as
   would be achieved by meeting the fifty-foot (50’) separation


   G. Parking Area Landscaping and Screening Standards
       1. Parking lot landscaping is intended to break up large expanses of pavement, create
          shade, buffer views of parking lots from adjacent streets and development, and enhance
          the overall appearance of each project.
       2. All parking lots with ten (10) spaces or more shall be subject to the following
          requirements.
       3. Interior parking lot landscape requirement:
            a. A minimum of one landscape island shall be provided per fifteen (15) parking
               spaces with a minimum width of nine feet (9’).
            b. Each island shall contain one (1) shade tree and seventy five percent (75%) live
               plant material cover.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 90
Figure 8-3-7-6 Interior Parking Lot Landscape Island




       4. Perimeter parking lot landscape requirement:
          a. A minimum eight-foot (8’) wide landscape area shall be provided at the perimeter
             of surface parking lots abutting any public right-of-way.
          b. A minimum of one (1) tree shall be provided per forty (40’) linear feet of required
             perimeter landscape area.
          c. The parking lot perimeter shall be screened by one of the following methods:
              1. A hedge of shrubs and ornamental grasses with a minimum height of thirty
                 inches (30”) and maximum height of thirty-six inches (36”) to screen seventy
                 five percent (75%) of headlights;

Figure 8-3-7-7 Parking Lot Perimeter Screening Option 1




              2. A berm with a minimum of thirty inches (30”) height; or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 91
Figure 8-3-7-8 Parking Lot Perimeter Screening Option 2




              3. A masonry wall with a height between three and four feet (3-4’) paired with
                 landscape material for at least fifty percent (50%) of the length of the landscape
                 area placed on the street side of the wall.

Figure 8-3-7-9 Parking Lot Perimeter Screening Option 3




       5. Limit areas of irrigated sod to landscape areas with a minimum width of ten (10’) feet.
       6. Where landscaping elements abut parking spaces, curbs, wheel stops, or two feet (2')
          of additional landscaping planted in ground cover to protect shrubs and trees from
          damage by vehicles shall be provided.
       7. Pedestrian access shall meet the requirements of subsection 8-6-19G.2 (Master Site
          Plan standards for Nonvehicular Access and Internal Circulation) of this Title.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 92
8-3-8:      Lighting
   A. Purpose. This Section provides standards on the types, construction, installation, and uses
      of outdoor lighting to conserve energy, regulate glare, prevent the creation of a nuisance,
      and enhance nighttime enjoyment of properties in Ada County without decreasing safety,
      utility, or security.
   B. Applicability. These regulations apply to the following uses and activities:
         1. Any proposed development requiring master site plan approval.
         2. Any stationary outdoor lighting in common areas of a planned unit development or
            subdivision.
         3. Installation, change, upgrade, expansion, or enlargement of existing outdoor lighting.
   C. Exempt. The following types of lighting are exempt from these regulations:
         1. Light fixtures that have a maximum output of less than two hundred sixty (260) lumens.
         2. All outdoor lighting produced by the direct combustion of natural gas or other fossil
            fuels such as kerosene lanterns or gas lamps.
         3. Temporary holiday lighting used for forty (40) days or less per year.
         4. Vehicular lights and all temporary emergency lighting needed for fire protection, police
            protection, and/or other emergency services.
         5. All hazard warning lights required by federal or state regulatory agencies.
         6. Streetlights installed by the Ada County Highway District or Idaho Department of
            Transportation in accordance with subsection F.7.b of this Section.
   D. Prohibited. The installation of any of the following types of lighting are prohibited:
         1. Mercury vapor lamp fixture and/or lamp.
         2. Laser source light or any similar high intensity light when projected above the
            horizontal.
         3. Changing colors, moving lights, or searchlights (for advertising purposes) are
            prohibited in all districts, except when approval has been obtained for temporary uses.
         4. Lighting, including holiday lighting, on commercial or private tower structures that
            exceed the district height limit is prohibited except as required by regulations of the
            Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
   E. Process
         1. A master site plan requires a lighting plan for any proposed outdoor lighting.
         2. The lighting plan shall show the location, orientation, and height of all proposed
            exterior light fixtures, both attached and detached (including those that may be exempt
            from these regulations). The lighting plan shall also detail the type and extent of
            shielding including cut off angles and the type of illumination including the watts,
            luminous area, and photometric test report for each light source.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 93
   F. Standards
       1. Two Hundred Sixty (260) Lumens or More. Light fixtures that have a maximum
          output of two hundred sixty (260) lumens or more shall have an opaque top to prevent
          up lighting.
       2. One Thousand (1,000) Lumens or More. Light fixtures that have a maximum output
          of one thousand (1,000) lumens or more per fixture shall have an opaque top to prevent
          up lighting and the bulb shall not be visible.
       3. One Thousand Eight Hundred (1,800) Lumens or More. Light fixtures that have a
          maximum output of one thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens or more shall have a
          "full cut off shield." See Figure 8-3-8-1.

Figure 8-3-8-1 Full Cut Off Shield




       4. Floodlight Fixtures. Floodlight fixture location shall prevent direct glare into a
          roadway and minimize impact on abutting properties.
           a. Floodlight fixtures shall be set to only go on when triggered by activity on the
              property (sensor activated) and to go off within five (5) minutes after activation has
              ceased.
           b. Installed floodlight fixtures shall not tilt more than forty-five degrees (45°) from
              vertical.
       5. Up Lighting. Up lighting is only allowed in cases where the fixture and any light it
          emits are shielded from the sky by a roof overhang or similar structural shield.
       6. Display and Security Lighting. Display lighting shall turn off within thirty (30)
          minutes after close of business and shall remain off until sunrise or the opening of the
          business on the following day, whichever comes first. There are no time restrictions
          regarding security lighting.
       7. Installed Height of Fixture
           a. The height of a freestanding light fixture shall not exceed twenty-five feet (25') or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 94
               the height of the principal permitted structure, whichever is less. Light fixtures
               mounted on a wall may extend to the full height of the structure, but no farther.
           b. The following standards apply to floodlight fixtures with a maximum output of nine
              hundred (900) lumens or more and other light fixtures that have a maximum output
              of one thousand eight hundred (1,800) lumens or more. Streetlights installed by the
              Ada County Highway District or Idaho Department of Transportation are exempt
              from these standards.
               1. Within a commercial or industrial base district, or a commercial or industrial
                  type use within a rural or transitional base district, the effective zone of light
                  (as documented by the photometric test report) shall not trespass on abutting
                  residential properties. See Figure 8-3-8-2 of this Title.
Figure 8-3-8-2 Light Trespass




               2. Within a rural, transitional, or residential base district, the allowed height shall
                  be determined by the setback from the property line established in Table 8-3-8-
                  1 Height of Light Fixtures below.

Table 8-3-8-1 Height of Light Fixtures

       Height of Pole           Setback from               Height of Pole           Setback from
                                Property Line                                       Property Line
       1 foot to 3 feet             0 feet                     15 feet                  36 feet
           4 feet                   3 feet                     16 feet                  39 feet
           5 feet                   6 feet                     17 feet                  42 feet
           6 feet                   9 feet                     18 feet                  45 feet
           7 feet                   12 feet                    19 feet                  48 feet
           8 feet                   15 feet                    20 feet                  51 feet
           9 feet                   18 feet                    21 feet                  54 feet
           10 feet                  21 feet                    22 feet                  57 feet


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 95
            11 feet                  24 feet                 23 feet                 60 feet
            12 feet                  27 feet                 24 feet                 63 feet
            13 feet                  30 feet                 25 feet                 66 feet
            14 feet                  33 feet
   Note: Table is based on the formula H (height) = 3 + D (setback distance) / 3.

         8. Underground Electrical Feeds. Electrical feeds to outdoor light fixtures shall be
            underground, and not overhead.
         9. Neon Illumination. Rural base districts prohibit neon illumination.
   G. Required Finding. In order to approve the application, a finding must be made that the
      proposed lighting plan complies with the standards listed in subsection 8-3-8F of this
      Chapter.
8-3-9:      Open Space
   A. Purpose. This Section encourages well designed open space within new development and
      provides standards for dedicated open space areas and/or uses approved as part of a
      development application.
   B. Applicability. These regulations shall apply to planned unit developments, master site
      plans, and/or subdivision plats that include dedicated open space areas and/or uses.
   C. General Regulations
         1. Dedicated Open Space Plan. The dedicated open space plan shall include the
            following information on a map of an appropriate scale and may be accompanied by
            any necessary associated documents:
            a. The boundaries and legal description of all dedicated open space areas;
            b. Existing distinctive natural characteristics including, but not limited to, prime
               agricultural land and topographical elements;
            c. The dedicated open space uses;
            d. Depiction of all impervious surfaces including, but not limited to, structure
               footprints, driveways, or roadways; and
            e. The dedicated open space area maintenance, management, and administration
               description.
         2. Required Dedicated Open Space. At least ten percent (10%) of residential areas of
            planned unit developments shall be designated as, and used exclusively for, dedicated
            open space, as set forth in this Section.
         3. Allowed Open Space Uses. The allowed open space uses shall include, but not be
            limited to, the following:
            a. Natural areas;
            b. Agriculture;
            c. Community garden plots for cultivation by residents;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 96
        d. Recreational areas designed for specific passive and/or active recreational uses
           including, but not limited to, golf courses, tot lots, tennis courts, swimming pools,
           and ball fields;
        e. Greenways identified on the adopted Ada County Ridge to Rivers Pathway Plan;
        f. Lawns or ground cover with or without trees;
        g. Riding trails and common pasture;
        h. Use associated with a historic structure; or
        i. Any combination of uses listed above.
     4. Ownership. Dedicated open space shall be held in one or more of the following
        methods of ownership:
        a. Condominium. If ownership of the proposed development is held as a
           condominium compliant with Idaho Code, Title 55, Chapter 15, the dedicated open
           space may be held as a common area of the condominium.
        b. Homeowners' Association. The dedicated open space may be held in common
           ownership by an incorporated homeowners' association.
        c. Fee Simple Dedication
            1. The dedicated open space may be dedicated to a federal, state, or municipal
               government body empowered to hold an interest in real property subject to the
               laws of Idaho or the United States, or a charitable corporation, charitable
               association, or charitable trust, the purposes or powers of which include
               retaining or protecting the natural, scenic, or open space values of real property,
               assuring the availability of real property for agricultural, forest, recreation, or
               open space use, protecting natural resources, maintaining or enhancing air or
               water quality, or preserving the historical, architectural, archaeological, or
               cultural aspects of real property.
            2. The County shall review and approve any offer of dedication to an entity listed
               above, and the acceptance of the offer, and the terms and conditions thereof that
               demonstrate the dedicated open space shall be maintained as dedicated open
               space.
     5. Maintenance Requirement. If any owner of dedicated open space fails to maintain
        same according to the standards of this Title, Ada County may demand that deficiency
        of maintenance be corrected and enter the dedicated open space to maintain same. The
        cost of such maintenance shall be charged to those persons having the primary
        responsibility for maintenance of the dedicated open space.
     6. Improvements. The applicant or owner is responsible for required improvements
        within dedicated open space areas. A surety agreement, established in Section 8-3-5,
        may be required to cover costs of installation or maintenance of those improvements.
  D. Design Standards
     1. Consistent with Adopted Plans. The design shall be consistent with adopted regional
        or local open space and recreation plans.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 97
          2. Accessibility. The dedicated open space shall have access to residents of the
             subdivision or planned unit development. For dedicated open space within a master site
             plan, the dedicated open space shall have access to site users.
          3. Roadways. The number of private or public roadways that divide the dedicated open
             space shall be limited to those necessary for proper traffic circulation, and the roadways
             shall not detract from the efficient use of the open space.
          4. Structures. The dedicated open space shall be free of all structures, except those that
             enhance the use of the dedicated open space including, but not limited to, structures
             related to outdoor recreational use, well houses, and stormwater retention basins.
          5. Stormwater Basins. Stormwater retention or detention basins designed and approved
             as part of the stormwater management system for the property may be located within
             the dedicated open space area.
          6. Impervious Surface. No more than five percent (5%) of the dedicated open space shall
             be impervious surface.
          7. Additional Standards for Dedicated Open Space in A Planned Unit Development
             or Subdivision
             a. The dedicated open space shall not be less than one hundred feet (100') in width at
                any point and not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of contiguous area,
                except when part of a trail system, pathway network, or pocket park for active
                recreational use.
             b. The dedicated open space shall connect to open space areas on neighboring
                properties wherever possible including provisions for pedestrian walkways to
                create linked walkway or pathway systems.
             c. The dedicated open space shall have the required number of automobile and bicycle
                parking spaces as established in Section 8-3-10 of this Chapter.
                 1. Parking areas shall have safe and convenient access from an abutting public
                    street or other rights of way or easements capable of accommodating pedestrian,
                    bicycle, or vehicle traffic.
                 2. Required parking areas for outdoor amusement or recreation facilities may be
                    included in calculating the amount of dedicated open space.
             d. When children's play equipment is proposed, a minimum of two (2) shade trees
                shall be planted to shade the play equipment on the west and southern exposures.
8-3-10:      Parking and Loading
   A. Purpose. This Section provides regulations and standards for off-street parking and
      loading facilities with the intent to provide off-street parking areas, minimize traffic
      hazards and congestion, improve connectivity and accessibility for all individuals and non-
      motorized users, and mitigate impacts on surrounding properties.
   B. Applicability. The following standards apply to any new construction, alteration, or
      moving of a structure or any new or more intense use of property. The number of off-street
      parking spaces are provided for all allowed uses in any district. The number of required


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 98
     spaces may be reduced or increased in any application involving discretionary approval.
  C. Process
     1. Site Plan. An off-street parking and loading plan are a required master site plan
        component.
        a. The off-street parking and loading plan contains the location, size, and type of all
           proposed off-street parking and loading facilities. A table shall be provided
           indicating any applicable standards and the calculations used to determine the
           required number of spaces.
        b. If the proposed development project shall be completed in phases, the site plan shall
           note these phases. Documentation on the proposed uses and the number of off-street
           parking and loading facilities associated with each phase shall also be provided.
     2. Residential and Accessory Uses. For residential and accessory uses that do not require
        master site plan approval, these regulations shall be reviewed at the time of building
        permit application or accessory use approval.
     3. Installation and Construction. Off-street parking and loading shall be installed and
        constructed in accordance with the approved off-street parking and loading plan.
  D. General Regulations
     1. Use of Required Parking Spaces
        a. Required parking spaces are used for vehicle and bicycle parking only.
        b. Parking areas for residential use may be used for the parking of one commercial
           vehicle per property if it is operated by the occupant and used to commute from
           home to work at an off-site location or used as part of an approved home
           occupation.
     2. Joint Use Parking. Joint use of off-street parking spaces are allowed when the
        principal operating hours of the structures or uses are not in conflict with one another.
        a. The required off-street parking shall be located within three hundred feet (300')
           from the primary entrance of the structure to the nearest entrance of the parking
           area, as measured along the sidewalk or pedestrian walkway.
        b. All parties involved with the joint use parking area shall submit a written agreement
           to the Director, signed by the applicable parties involved. The agreement shall
           specify the following:
            1. Party or parties responsible for construction;
            2. Party or parties responsible for maintenance;
            3. Regulations for amendments to the agreement that include notice to the
               Director; and
            4. Regulations for termination of the agreement that include notice to the Director.
        c. If the Director finds that the agreement complies with these regulations, the
           agreement shall be recorded with the Ada County Recorder prior to issuance of any
           permits.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 99
        d. The joint use parking agreement may be terminated by the parties only if off-street
           parking is provided in conformance with this Section and approved by the Director
           prior to the termination.
     3. Continuous Service Drives. Continuous service drives shall meet the following
        standards:
        a. Service drives are only allowed for multi-family developments, or developments
           that are within the commercial and industrial base districts.
        b. The minimum width of the continuous service drive shall be twenty feet (20') and
           shall be paved with asphaltic concrete as approved by the County Engineer. The
           parking areas and drive aisles shall comply with Section 8-3-10E of this Section.
           Where the continuous service drive also doubles as the drive aisle, the minimum
           width of the continuous service drive shall be twenty-five feet (25').
        c. The continuous service drive shall connect to a minimum of one public road. The
           point(s) of connection shall be approved by the Ada County Highway District or
           Idaho Transportation Department based on the classification of the public road.
           Continuous service drives shall be designed to discourage cut-through traffic.
        d. Written approval shall be provided from the appropriate fire district.
  E. Design Standards
     1. Design of Parking Areas
        a. Design and Construction. All parking areas shall be designed and constructed to
           provide the type and number of off-street parking spaces required by subsection 8-
           3-10F of this Section and designed as required by this Section.
        b. Location. All parking spaces required by this Section shall be located on the same
           property as the use for which parking is required, except as provided for in joint use
           parking in subsection 8-3-10D.2 of this Chapter. For the purposes of this standard,
           all properties within a single master site plan or planned unit development shall be
           considered the same property.
        c. Accessible Spaces. Accessible parking spaces shall provide reasonable
           accommodations to principal permitted structures and shall be located along the
           shortest route of travel from adjacent parking to an accessible entrance.
        d. Additional Design Standards for Uses Requiring Master Site Plan Approval
           1. Off-street parking spaces shall not be located in any landscape area required by
              subsections 8-3-7F and 8-3-7G of this Chapter.
           2. Parking stalls and driving aisles shall be designed in accord with the standards
              in Table 8-3-10-1 of this Section.
           3. All parking areas shall provide on-site turnarounds for all off street parking
              spaces and loading facilities.
           4. The design of off-street parking areas shall not require moving any car to gain
              access to a required parking space. (No tandem parking).
           5. Sidewalks located within the off-street parking areas, outside of public rights of

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 100
                 way, shall be a minimum width of five feet (5').
              6. All sidewalks must contain adequate ADA ramps with truncated domes that are
                 perpendicular to the service drives or drive aisle per Public Right-of-Way
                 Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG) guidance.

 Table 8-3-10-1 Parking Dimensions

    Parking      Stall Width   Curb Length       Stall Depth         One Way         Two Way
     Angle                                                          Driving Aisle   Driving Aisle
       0             9’             23’              9’                  12’             25’
      30             9’             18’            17’8”                 11’             25’
      45             9’            12’9”           20’5”                 13’             25’
      60             9’            10’5”           21’10”                16’             25’
      90             9’             9’              20’                  22’             25’

     2. Improvements
         a. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, all off street parking areas shall be
            improved with a compacted gravel base, not less than four inches (4") thick,
            surfaced with asphaltic concrete or some comparable all weather dustless material
            as approved by the County Engineer. This standard shall not apply to agricultural
            produce stands, roadside produce stands, rural residences, temporary uses, or
            temporary construction offices.
         b. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, all off street parking areas shall be
            provided with a substantial wheel restraint to prevent cars from encroaching upon
            abutting private and public property or overhanging beyond the designated parking
            stall dimensions. This standard shall not apply to agricultural produce stands,
            roadside produce stands, rural residences, temporary uses, or temporary
            construction offices.
         c. When a bumper overhangs onto a sidewalk or landscape area, the parking stall
            dimensions may be reduced two feet (2') in length if two feet (2') are added to the
            width of the sidewalk or landscaped area planted in ground cover. In no case shall
            the width of the sidewalk not be ADA compliant.
         d. Parking spaces and access lanes shall be marked including accessible symbols and
            signs.
         e. All lighting provided to illuminate a parking area shall comply with the lighting
            standards provided in Section 8-3-8 of this Chapter.
     3. Bicycle Parking Facilities. Bicycle parking facilities, where required by this section,
        shall meet the following location and design standards:
         a. Bicycle parking facilities shall be located as close as possible to the building
            entrance(s).
         b. Bicycle parking spaces shall be a minimum of 6-feet (6’) long and two and one-
            half-feet (2.5’) wide and have an overhead clearance of seven-feet (7’) if covered.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 101
             A four-foot (4’) wide aisle is required between rows of bicycle parking spaces or
             nearby walls. Stationary racks shall be located on improved non-permeable
             surfaces and anchored to the ground.
        c. Bicycle parking facilities shall not obstruct pedestrian walkways, public sidewalks,
           or building entrances.
        d. Bicycle parking facilities shall not conflict with the Americans with Disabilities
           Act.
        e. Bicycle parking facilities shall support the bicycle and allow the owner to lock the
           frame and front wheel with one lock.
  F. Required Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces
     1. Generally
        a. The required number of off-street automobile and bicycle parking spaces, where
           required by this section, shall meet the requirements established in Table 8-3-10-2
           (Parking Ratios) of this Section.
        b. Where the standards require a fractional space, the next larger whole number shall
           be the number of spaces required.
        c. When more than one standard is provided, the standard that results in the greatest
           number of required parking spaces shall apply.
        d. For uses listed in Table 8-2-23-2 (Use Table) but not listed in Table 8-3-10-2
           (Parking Ratios), parking ratios shall be determined by the Director.
     2. Minimum Parking. The minimum parking spaces required on the site are established
        in Table 8-3-10-2 (Parking Ratios) below.
     3. Bicycle Parking. Bicycle parking facilities are required for uses within an area of city
        impact. Bicycle parking facilities shall meet the following location and design
        standards except in the industrial base districts.
        a. One bicycle parking space shall be provided for every ten (10) proposed parking
           spaces.
        b. Residential uses, except for multi-family, are exempt from providing bicycle
           spaces.
     4. Mixed Uses. For mixed uses, the total requirement of off-street automobile and bicycle
        parking spaces shall be the sum of the requirements of the individual uses, except as
        provided in joint use of parking in subsection 8-3-10D.2 of this Chapter.
     5. Accessible Parking. The number and design of accessible automobile parking spaces
        shall comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
     6. Reserved Parking Spaces. Reserved off street automobile parking spaces shall be
        noted on the site plan and each reserved space shall count as one required space.
     7. Change of Use
        a.   Upon any change of use, the number of automobile and bicycle parking spaces to
             be provided shall be calculated according to the requirement of this Section for the

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 102
                 new use.
            b.   For the purposes of this Section, a change of use shall include, but not be limited
                 to, an expansion, alteration, or change in occupancy resulting in a more intense
                 use of a site, such as additional dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity,
                 or other unit of measurement specified as a standard in subsection 8-3-10F, Table
                 8-3-10-2 (Parking Ratios) of this Chapter.
       8. Maintenance. The minimum number of required automobile and bicycle parking
          spaces shall be provided and continuously maintained.
       9. Elimination, Reduction, or Conversion. No parking area or space provided, as
          required by this Section, shall later be eliminated, reduced, or converted in any manner
          unless other equivalent facilities approved by the Director are provided.

  Table 8-3-10-2 Parking Ratios

DU = dwelling unit | sf = square feet | / = per (e.g., 1 / DU means “1 parking space per dwelling unit”)
Proposed Use                                                     Proposed Minimum Parking Ratio
Residential
Dwelling, Single-Family Detached                                                  2/DU
Dwelling, Single-Family Attached                                                  2/DU
Dwelling, Duplex                                                                  2/DU
                                                                  >2 bedrooms: 2.25/DU; 1 bedroom:
Dwelling, Multi-Family (> 2 bedrooms)
                                                                   1.25/DU (25% for visitor spaces)
Manufactured Home                                                                 2/DU
Manufactured Home Park                                             2.25/DU (25% for visitor spaces)
Lodging / Group Living
Bed and Breakfast Establishment                                         1 + (0.75 / guest room)
Boarding House                                                          1 + (0.75 / guest room)
Continuing Care Facility                                                        2/1000 sf
Foster Home, Group                                                              2/1000 sf
Hotel/Motel                                                                  1/guest room
Recreational Vehicle Park                                                         2/site
Agriculture
                                                                             Stable – N/A
Equestrian Stable/Event Facility
                                                                        Event Facility -1/500 sf
Livestock Confinement Facility (1,000+)                                         1/1000 sf
Livestock Confinement Facility (301-999)                                        1/1000 sf
Nursery, Wholesale                                                            0.25/1000 sf
Seasonal Farmworker Housing                                             2/DU or 1/dorm room
Winery                                                                          2/1000 sf
Commercial / Office
Animal Services


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 103
DU = dwelling unit | sf = square feet | / = per (e.g., 1 / DU means “1 parking space per dwelling unit”)
Proposed Use                                                     Proposed Minimum Parking Ratio
Kennel, Commercial                                                              2/1000 sf
Veterinary Services                                                             2/1000 sf
Day Care
Family Day Care, Home                                                           2/1000 sf
Day Care, Group                                                                 3/1000 sf
Day Care, Center                                                                3/1000 sf
Financial Services
Financial Institution                                                           2/1000 sf
Food & Beverage Sales / Service
Bar                                                                             5/1000 sf
Brewpub or Distillery                                                           5/1000 sf
Nightclub                                                                       5/1000 sf
Restaurant                                                                      5/1000 sf
Office, Business & Professional
Office                                                                          2/1000 sf
Personal / Business Services
Personal Services                                                               2/1000 sf
Postal Service                                                                  2/1000 sf
Retail sales
Auction                                                                         5/1000 sf
Farm, garden, lumber, or building supply store                                  1/1000 sf
Fuel Sales                                                                     ½ pumps
Heavy Equipment Sales or Service                                                1/1000 sf
Nursery, Retail                                                                 1/1000 sf
Retail Store                                                                    2/1000 sf
Automotive
Car Wash                                                                   1/bay + 1/1000 sf
Vehicle Repair, Minor                                                      1/bay + 1/1000 sf
Vehicle Repair, Major                                                      1/bay + 1/1000 sf
Vehicle Sales                                                                   1/1000 sf
Entertainment / Recreation
Adult Entertainment Establishment                                               8/1000 sf
Amusement or Recreation, Indoor                                                 4/1000 sf
                                                                                 10/acre
Amusement or Recreation, Outdoor                                 Golf Course and Country Club 2 per
                                                                         hole/1 per employee
Campground                                                                        1/site
Racetrack                                                                        10/acre


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 104
DU = dwelling unit | sf = square feet | / = per (e.g., 1 / DU means “1 parking space per dwelling unit”)
Proposed Use                                                     Proposed Minimum Parking Ratio
Shooting Range Indoor Only)                                                     2/1000 sf
Shooting Range (Outdoor Only)                                                   2/1000 sf
Civic
Assembly
Event Center                                                                    5/1000 sf
Religious Land Use                                                              5/1000 sf
Death Care Services
Cemetery                                                                         10/acre
Crematory                                                                       2/1000 sf
Funeral Services                                                                2/1000 sf
Mortuary                                                                        2/1000 sf
Government / Non-Profit
Public or Quasi-Public Use                                                      2/1000 sf
Education
School                                                                          3/1000 sf
Studio                                                                          2/1000 sf
Technical School                                                                3/1000 sf
Medical
Clinic (Dental or Medical)                                                      4/1000 sf
Medical Care Facility                                                           4/1000 sf
Industrial
Manufacturing & Employment
Asphalt or Concrete Ready-Mix Plant                                             1/1000 sf
Contractor Yard                                                                 1/1000 sf
Explosive Manufacturing or Storage                                              1/1000 sf
Foundry                                                                         1/1000 sf
Manufacturing, Heavy                                                            1/1000 sf
Manufacturing, Light                                                            1/1000 sf
Meatpacking/ Slaughterhouse Facility                                            1/1000 sf
Pit, Mine, or Quarry                                                            1/1000 sf
Processing Plant, Agricultural and Dairy Products                               1/1000 sf
Research and Development Facility                                               1/1000 sf
Sawmill/Planning Mill                                                           1/1000 sf
Tannery                                                                         1/1000 sf
Wood, Metal, and Stone Shop                                                     1/1000 sf
Warehousing, Storage & Distribution
Energy Storage                                                                    2/site
Grain Elevator                                                                    2/site


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 105
DU = dwelling unit | sf = square feet | / = per (e.g., 1 / DU means “1 parking space per dwelling unit”)
Proposed Use                                                     Proposed Minimum Parking Ratio
                                                                Parking for On-Site Office (see Office
Manufactured Home Storage
                                                                               Standard)
Storage Facility, Self-Service                                                    2/site
Storage Facility, Self-Service, Outdoor Only                                      2/site
Wholesale Distribution and Warehousing                                     1 + (0.25/1000 sf)
Infrastructure
Transportation / Parking:
Freight/Truck Terminal                                                            4/site
Heavy Truck Wash Facility                                                       1/1000 sf
Railroad Switching Yard                                                           2/site
Truck Stop                                                                      2/1000 sf
Utilities
Centralized Power Facility                                                      1/1000 sf
Electric Substation                                                             1/1000 sf
Communications
Radio and Television Broadcasting Station                                       1/1000 sf
Waste-related:
Composting Facility                                                               4/site
Junkyard or Automobile Wrecking Yard                                              4/site
Recycling Center                                                                  4/site
Recycling Plant                                                                   4/site
Sanitary Landfill                                                                 4/site
Septage Treatment and Disposal Facility                                           4/site
Soil/Water Remediation                                                            4/site
Vehicle Impound Yard                                                              4/site
Accessory Uses
Additional Farm Dwelling                                                          1/DU
Caretaker Dwelling                                                                1/DU
Dwelling, Secondary Attached or Detached                                          1/DU
Home Occupation, small/large                                                      1/DU
Produce Stand, Agricultural                                                1/produce stand
Produce Stand, Roadside                                                    4/produce stand
Temporary Uses
Temporary Living Quarters*                                                        2/DU
Other
Dangerous or Protected Animal Facility                                          1/1000 sf




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 106
   G. General Off-Street Loading. Any commercial or industrial use with a gross floor area of
      five thousand (5,000) square feet or more requires off-street loading. These uses shall
      provide and maintain at least one off-street loading space. One additional off-street loading
      space shall be required for each subsequent twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of gross
      floor area (e.g., 25,000 square feet, 45,000 square feet, etc.).
   H. Loading Space Dimensions. Each loading space shall meet the following minimum
      dimensions:
          1. A ten-foot (10’) width;
          2. A thirty-foot (30’) length; and
          3. A fourteen foot (14’) vertical clearance.
   I. Backing and Maneuverability
          1. Parking and loading area design shall not result in vehicles backing out into the street.
          2. Parking and loading area design shall accommodate vehicular maneuverability on site.
   J. Loading Location
          1. No off-street loading space shall be located within fifty feet (50’) of an abutting rural,
             transitional, or residential district, as outlined in Table 8-2-3-1, unless wholly enclosed
             within a structure.
          2. No off-street loading space shall face an abutting residential district.
   K. Loading Hours of Operation. Any off-street loading space located within fifty feet (50')
      of a residential district shall not operate between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
      seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
8-3-11:      Private Roads
   A. Purpose. This Section allows property owners to construct and maintain private roads to
      provide access to properties that do not have frontage on a public street.
   B. Applicability. These standards apply to all new private roads, all extensions to private
      roads, and in some instances, to existing private roads.
   C. Process
          1. When Application is Required
             a. The construction of all new private roads.
             b. Extensions to existing private roads.
             c. The addition of properties to an existing private road, which requires the road to be
                widened and paved as required in subsection 8-3-11D.2 of this Chapter.
             d. An application for a private road shall not be required when an existing private road
                has had prior written approval and provides adequate access for the additional lots
                of property being proposed.
                 1. Documents demonstrating approval and adequate access must be submitted as
                    part of the property development application.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 107
              2. Submitted documents include:
                 a. a copy of the recorded perpetual access easement that demonstrates the
                    easement is applicable to additional properties;
                 b. the recorded maintenance agreement that demonstrates it is applicable to
                    the additional properties;
                 c. and the original approval from Ada County or the city which approved the
                    existing private road.
      2. Tentative Approval; Requirements. Upon tentative approval of the application by
         the Director subject to any applicable conditions of approval and Section 8-6-6 of this
         Title, the following tasks shall be completed in one year or two years if a private road
         is a part of a subdivision application:
          a. Obtain approval from the Ada County Street Naming Committee for a private road
             name (see Title 2, Chapter 1 of this code);
          b. Contact the Ada County Highway District (ACHD) to install an approved street
             name sign that complies with the Ada County uniform street naming ordinance (see
             Title 2, Chapter 1 of this code);
          c. Record a perpetual access easement with the Ada County Recorder for the private
             road from a public street to all applicable properties;
          d. After the private road is constructed and the street name sign is installed, schedule
             an inspection by the Ada County Engineer; and
          e. Documentation of a binding contract shall be provided that establishes the party or
             parties responsible for the repair and maintenance of the private road including
             regulations for the funding thereof.
      3. Completion; Approval. Upon completion of the items noted above, the Director shall
         issue a letter stating that the private road has been approved. No building permit shall
         be issued for any structure using a private road for access to a public street until the
         private road has been approved.
   D. Standards. All private roads (including extensions of previously approved private roads)
      must be designed by a professional engineer licensed in the state of Idaho and constructed
      to the following standards (see Figure 8-3-11-1 Private Road Minimum Construction
      Standards for Properties Outside and Inside an Area of City Impact):

Figure 8-3-11-1 Private Road Minimum Construction Standards for Properties Outside and
Inside an Area of City Impact




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 108
       1. Design Standards
          a. The private road shall be constructed on a perpetual access easement or a single
             platted lot that originates from a public street and provides access to all applicable
             properties.
              1. Outside an area of city impact, the easement or lot shall be a minimum of thirty
                 feet (30') in width. Inside an area of city impact, the easement or lot shall be a
                 minimum of fifty feet (50') in width.
              2. If located on a lot, the primary function of the lot shall be to accommodate the
                 private road. Minimum parcel size requirements shall not apply.
          b. All properties abutting an approved private road shall have the same minimum
             required street frontage as required by the applicable base district.
              1. Exception. If the turnaround for the private road is located within a property as
                 illustrated in Figure 8-3-11-2 Private Roads, the required frontage shall be thirty
                 feet (30') (the width of the private road easement).

Figure 8-3-11-2 Private Roads




          c. The point of connection of the private road and the public street shall be approved
             by the Ada County Highway District or the Idaho Transportation Department if
             abutting a state highway.
          d. The private road shall terminate at a forty-five-foot (45') radius cul-de-sac or other
             approved turnaround configuration.
              1. The turnaround may be located in an area of the property other than where the
                 private road enters the property (see Figure 8-3-11-2 Private Roads.)
              2. If an alternate location and/or configuration for the turnaround is proposed, the
                 following additional standards shall apply:


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 109
               a. Written approval shall be provided from the appropriate fire district.
               b. The County Engineer shall review and approve the alternate location and/or
                  configuration.
        e. The private road shall only intersect a public road at its origination point.
        f. The private road shall not intersect another private road.
        g. New gates or other travelway obstacles shall not be allowed except in exceptional
           circumstances when the Director determines the gate or gates are necessary to
           improve safety or to halt environmental degradation in the area. Before approving
           a new gate or other obstacle, the Director shall provide the fire district, or if no fire
           district, the Ada County Sheriff, with advice from the Idaho State Fire Marshal's
           Office, the opportunity to review the proposal and offer recommendations.
           1. Approved gate openings shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') wide, be
              located a minimum of thirty feet (30') from the public right of way, and when
              the gate is open, the travelway, for its entire width shall be clear and
              unobstructed.
           2. Gates located on one-way roads shall open in the same direction that traffic
              moves. Gates located on two-way roads must open in both directions that traffic
              moves. Gates that open upward shall not be allowed.
           3. Gates shall have a fail-open lock in the event of a loss of power.
        h. No segment of the travel way of a private road shall exceed ten percent (10%) grade.
           Fire apparatus roadways in locations that front buildings, at intersections with other
           roads, and in front of fire hydrants, shall not exceed eight percent (8%) grade.
        i. If the private road is located within the Wildland-Urban Fire Interface Overlay
           district, the additional design standards listed in Section 8-2-25 (Wildland-Urban
           Interface Overlay District) of this Title apply.
        j. Upon the County Engineer's review of the design of the proposed private road that
           licensed in the state of Idaho, the submittal of a drainage study may be required
           before constructing the private road.
     2. Construction Standards
        a. Private roads that serve developments located within an area of city impact and
           exceed a density of three (3) dwelling units per acre shall be constructed to the Ada
           County Highway District standards for urban local roads.
        b. All other private roads shall be constructed to the following standards:
           1. Private roads that will provide frontage or access to four (4) or fewer properties
              shall have a travel way with a minimum improved width of twenty feet (20').
              Private roads that will provide frontage or access to more than four (4)
              properties shall have a travel way with a minimum improved width of twenty-
              four feet (24').
           2. The travel way shall have a stable, compacted base.
           3. There shall be a crown or transverse slope of two percent (2%) to drain water

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 110
                     away from the travel way.
                 4. The improved surface shall consist of six inches (6") of compacted three-fourths
                    inch (3/4") minus crushed gravel or other materials approved by the County
                    Engineer. Private roads that provide frontage and/or access to more than four
                    (4) properties shall be paved with two and a half (2.5”) inches of asphaltic
                    concrete.
                 5. Any segment of a travelway of a private road greater than five percent (5%)
                    grade shall be improved with asphalt or concrete paving.
                 6. For the purposes of this Section, corner properties that abut a private road shall
                    be counted as taking access off the private road. Temporary dedicated open
                    space lots that were created as part of a nonfarm subdivision shall also be
                    counted as taking access off the private road.
   E. Required Findings. In order to approve the application, the Director shall find the
      following:
          1. The design of the private road meets the requirements of this Section;
          2. Granting approval of the private road would not cause damage, hazard, or nuisance, or
             other detriment to persons, property, or uses in the vicinity; and
          3. The use and location of the private road shall not conflict with the applicable
             comprehensive plan and/or the regional transportation plan.
8-3-12:      Signs
    A. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to control and regulate the erection and
       maintenance of signs in the unincorporated portions of Ada County by:
          1. Protecting state and federal constitutional rights to free speech by:
             a. Providing ample opportunities for expression through signs;
             b. Avoiding regulatory triggers or distinctions based on a sign’s content; and
             c. Providing clear standards for approval of signs.
          2. Protecting the public health and safety by:
             a. Providing maximum visibility along highways;
             b. Assuring unobstructed views at connecting roads and intersections for all users;
             c. Preventing undue distraction of operators of motor vehicles; and
             d. Preventing confusion with respect to traffic lights, signs, or signals.
          3. Promoting the County’s appearance, character, quality, and business climate by:
             a. Encouraging attractive and functional signs;
             b. Encouraging signs that harmonize with the sign’s site and buildings and with
                surrounding buildings and developments.
   B. Applicability. This Section applies to signs that are installed, constructed, painted, or
      altered after the effective date of this Title.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 111
     1. Signs Requiring Building Permits. The Ada County Building Code, set forth in Title
        7, Chapter 2 of this code, determines which signs require building permits.
     2. Signs Requiring Administrative Approval. Any sign greater than sixty-four (64)
        square feet requires administrative approval prior to construction and/or placement
        unless this Section exempts the sign from the permitting requirement.
     3. Interstate Roads and Primary Highways. The standards of this Title apply to all
        interstate roads and primary highways covered by the Idaho Highway Beautification
        Act, Idaho Code Title 40, Chapter 19, to the extent that this Section provides more
        restrictive standards for maintaining signs on such roadways.
  C. Exempt Signs. This Section does not apply to the following types of signs, which do not
     require permits.
     1. Signs less than four (4) square feet in sign area that are embedded, extruded, or carved
        into the material of a building façade or are made of bronze, brushed stainless steel or
        aluminum, or similar material that is permanently attached to the building façade.
     2. Signs erected, maintained, or displayed by the State, Federal, or County government,
        or any other subdivision of the State. Government uses in all zoning districts may
        include signs.
     3. Traffic control devices on private or public property erected and maintained to comply
        with the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices adopted in the State of Idaho or
        by the Federal Highway Administration.
     4. Signs placed by a public utility showing the location of underground facilities.
     5. Any sign that is visible only from the parcel where it is located.
  D. Prohibited Signs. The following signs are prohibited:
     1. Any sign or sign structure, other than approved County and highway signs in or on any
        street or highway right of way; and
     2. Signs incorporating a rotating beam, beacon, or flashing illumination resembling an
        emergency light.
  E. General Regulations
     1. Owner’s Consent Required. A person may not place a sign or sign structure on private
        or public property without the written consent of the owner.
     2. Illumination
         a. Illumination of signs is subject to the regulations in Section 8-3-8 (Lighting) of this
            Chapter.
         b. Where this Section provides for illumination of a sign, the illumination may be
            direct, internal, or neon illumination unless the sign standard specifies otherwise.
         c. Flashing and/or animated signs are prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of
            any property within a residential base district.
     3. Measurement



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 112
        a. For the purposes of this Section, distance for the purpose of establishing location
           refers to the linear distance in either direction on the street to which the sign faces
           only.
        b. For building signs, the maximum sign area is based on the area of the building face
           to which the sign is attached.
        c. If the adjacent street grade to which the sign is oriented is more than ten feet (10')
           greater than the grade elevation at the base of the sign structure, the adjacent street
           grade may be used in determining the permitted height. This provision applies to
           all freestanding sign structures.
     4. Clear Vision Triangle. Signs at railroad and street intersections are not permitted in
        the clear vision triangle as defined in this Title.
     5. Blanketing. For the purpose of preventing the blanketing of one sign by another, the
        following provisions govern the size of a sign and its location:
        a. A projecting sign may not be erected in the same horizontal plane with other
           projecting signs unless the signs are spaced as provided in table 8-3-12-1, measured
           center to center.

       Table 8-3-12-1 Required Spacing of Projecting Signs

        Overlap Of Projecting Signs                                Spacing Between Signs
        3 feet or less                                                    10 feet
        Greater than 3 feet to 4 feet                                     20 feet
        Greater than 4 feet to 6 feet                                     25 feet
        Greater than 6 feet                                               30 feet

        b. A projecting sign erected closer than allowed by table 8-3-12-1 must be erected
           above the top edge or below the bottom edge of the blanketed sign.
     6. Setbacks
        a. Signs must have a minimum setback of five feet (5') from any property line, unless
           this Section provides otherwise.
        b. A sign background area facing the side or rear property line of an abutting
           residential base district may not be located within fifty feet (50') of the side or rear
           property line.
     7. Substitution. Any sign with a commercial message may contain any non- commercial
        message. Any sign with a non-commercial message may contain any other non-
        commercial message.
     8. Signs Not Addressed in this Section. If there is no applicable regulation in this Title,
        the application will be considered under the conditional use procedure outlined in
        Chapter 6 of this Title.
  F. Signs in Commercial and Industrial Districts
     1. Single Use Properties. Properties with a single use in a commercial or industrial base

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 113
        district are allowed one or more building signs as provided in this subsection.
        a. Building Signs. Table 8-3-12-2 provides the sign standards for building signs for
           single use properties in a commercial or industrial district.

       Table 8-3-12-2 Building Sign Standards for Single Use Properties

        Standard                     Wall Sign           Projecting Sign           Canopy Sign
        Max. Sign Area (as a          40%                     15%                     15%
        % of building face)
        Max. Height                    30 feet                30 feet                  30 feet
        Illumination Allowed            Yes                    Yes                      Yes
        Animation (as a % of            20%                    20%                      20%
        sign area)

        b. Freestanding Signs
            1. Standards. In lieu of building signs as provided in this subsection, one
               freestanding sign is permitted on each street frontage for any property as
               provided in Table 8-3-12-3 in each commercial or industrial base district.

       Table 8-3-12-3 Freestanding Sign Standards for Single Use Properties

        Standard                                                    Allowance
        Number                                                 1 per street frontage
        Max. Sign Area                                     Greater of 65 square feet or
                                                 1.5 square feet per linear feet of street frontage
        Max. Height                                                    40 feet
        Illumination Allowed                                            Yes
        Animation (as a % of the sign area)                             20%

            2. Setback. Freestanding signs must be located at least a distance equal to twenty
               percent (20%) of the length of the road frontage where the sign is located within
               50% of the sign’s height from any abutting property line.
        c. Combination of Building and Freestanding Signs. Properties with a single use
           in commercial and industrial base districts are allowed a combination of a building
           sign and a freestanding sign provided:
            1. All signs are reduced by fifty percent (50%) in sign area; and
            2. The height to the top of the freestanding sign does not exceed thirty feet (30').
     2. Multi-Use Properties. Properties with more than a single use in a commercial or
        industrial base district are allowed signs as provided in this subsection.
        a. Building Signs
            1. Standards. Table 8-3-12-4 provides the sign standards for building signs.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 114
       Table 8-3-12-4 Building Signs for Multi-Use Properties

       Standard                         C1 and LO          C2 Districts        Industrial
                                         Districts                              Districts
       Max. Sign Area                 200 square feet    315 square feet     315 square feet
       Max. Height, Sign                  35 feet            55 feet             55 feet
       Background Area
       Max. Height, Sign Structure        45 feet             70 feet            70 feet
       Illumination Allowed                Yes                 Yes                Yes
       Animation (as a % of the            10%                 20%                20%
       sign area)

            2. Projecting Signs. Table 8-3-12-5 provides the sign standards for projecting
               signs.

       Table 8-3-12-5 Projecting Signs for Multi-Use Properties
        Standard                         C1 and LO                 C2 and Industrial
                                           Districts                    Districts
        Max. Sign Area (as a                  10%                          10%
        % of building face)
        Max. Height             Lesser of 20 feet above grade Lesser of 20 feet above grade
                                   or 4 feet above eaves or     or 4 feet above eaves or
                                            parapet                      parapet
        Illumination Allowed                  Yes                          Yes
        Animation (as a % of                  10%                          20%
        the sign area)

            3. Roof Signs. This subsection provides additional standards for roof signs.
               a. Roof signs are allowed by conditional use permit only.
               b. The lower and upper edges of a roof sign must be within four feet (4') and
                  eight feet (8') above the eaves of the building on which it is placed.
               c. Illumination of roof signs is not allowed.
        b. Freestanding Signs
            1. Standards. In lieu of building signs as provided in this subsection, one
               freestanding sign is permitted on each street frontage as provided in Table 8-3-
               12-6 in commercial and industrial base districts.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 115
       Table 8-3-12-6 Freestanding Signs for Multi-Use Properties

        Standard                                                   Allowance
        Number                                               1 per street frontage
        Max. Sign Area                                    Greater of 50 square feet or
                                                 1 square foot per linear foot of street frontage
        Max. Height                                                  25 feet
        Illumination Allowed                                           Yes
        Animation (as a % of the sign area)                           10%

            2. Setback. A freestanding sign must be located at least a distance equal to twenty
               percent (20%) of the length of the road frontage where the sign is located within
               fifty percent (50%) of the sign’s height from any abutting property line.
        c. Combination of Building and Freestanding Signs. Multi-Use properties are
           allowed a combination of a building sign and a freestanding sign if:
            1. All signs are reduced by fifty percent (50%) in sign area;
            2. Signs in any commercial or industrial base districts are at least one hundred feet
               (100’) from any property in a residential district except the R12 and R20
               districts.
     3. Establishments Within Multi-Use Properties. Each establishment within a property
        that has more than one use in a commercial or industrial base district is allowed one or
        more building signs as provided in this subsection.
        a. Building Signs
            1. Standards. Table 8-3-12-7 provides the sign standards for building signs for
               each establishment in a multi-use property in a commercial or industrial district.

       Table 8-3-12-7 Building Sign Standards for Establishments in Multi-Use Properties

        Standard                                                     Allowance
        Max. Sign Area (as a % of building face)                        25%
        Max. Height                                        Lesser of 20 feet above grade
                                                          or 4 feet above eaves or parapet
        Illumination Allowed                                            Yes
        Animation (as a % of the sign area)                             10%

            2. Measurement. The maximum area is based on the building face area dedicated
               to each grade level use.
            3. Revolving signs are prohibited.
            4. Establishments above grade level may have business signs as outlined in this
               subsection, except that the maximum sign area is reduced by fifty percent
               (50%).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 116
         b. Projecting Signs. One projecting sign is allowed for each grade level use on each
            street frontage, plus one additional projecting sign for each one hundred fifty feet
            (150’) of street frontage devoted to a single use.
      4. Property With Frontage on Two Or More Streets
         a. Generally. Property with frontage on two or more streets is allowed the number
            and dimensions of signs on each of the streets as provided in this Section unless it
            is on a corner lot.
         b. Corner Lot. Property located on a corner may have either one (1) freestanding sign
            designed to be read from both intersecting streets or two (2) freestanding signs
            where each sign is designed to be read from only one of the intersecting streets.
  G. Signs for Non-Residential Uses in Residential, Transitional, and Rural Districts
      1. Standards. A permitted non-residential use in a residential, transitional, or rural district
         is allowed signs that conform with the standards in Table 8-3-12-8.

 Table 8-3-12-8 Sign Standards for Non-Residential Uses in Residential and Rural Districts

 Standard                    Rural and                R4, R6, and          All Other Residential
                            Transitional                   R8
 Maximum Sign         Lesser of 64 square feet Lesser of 32 square feet Lesser of 64 square feet
 Area                 or 1 square foot for each or 1 square foot for each or 1 square foot for each
                              3 feet of                 3 feet of                 3 feet of
                              frontage                   frontag                   frontag
                                                            e                         e
 Height (in feet)              12 feet                    8 feet                   12 feet
 Illumination                    Yes                       Yes                       Yes
 Allowed
 Animation Allowed               No                          No                          No

      2. Frontage Calculation. For the purposes of this subsection, street frontage means the
         frontage of the principal building on the principal street, measured in linear feet.
      3. Freestanding Sign Standards. Freestanding signs shall not revolve or flash.
      4. Roof Signs Prohibited. Roof signs are prohibited. The top edge of a sign may not
         project above the lesser of the eaves of the building or the height in Table 8-3-12-8.
  H. Subdivision Entry Signs
      1. Standards. A subdivision entry sign on the site of a single-family or multi- family
         residential development is allowed one sign that conforms with the standards in Table
         8-3-12-9.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 117
        Table 8-3-12-9 Sign Standards for Subdivision Entry Signs

         Standard              Residential, Transitional, and                Commercial
                                       Rural Districts                          Districts
         Number                1 per residential development        1 per residential development
         Max. Sign Area          Lesser of 64 square feet or         Lesser of 64 square feet or
                               1 square foot per linear foot of     1 square ft per linear foot of
                                       street frontage                      street frontage
         Height                             8 feet                               12 feet
         Illumination          Direct or Internal Illumination             Direct or Internal
                                                                              Illumination
         Animation                              No                                 No

      2. Movement Not Allowed. Subdivision entry signs shall not revolve or flash or have
         any movement feature.
      3. Freestanding Signs
          a. Freestanding signs shall not be located in the required yards.
          b. Freestanding signs are allowed only when the building setback is at least twenty
             feet (20’) from the front property line.
      4. Building Signs. Building signs shall not exceed the height of the eaves line of the
         building.
  I. Incidental Signs
      1. Standards. Incidental signs are allowed without a permit in all districts; however, they
         are only allowed on a developed property and must comply with the standards in Table
         8-3-12-10.

 Table 8-3-12-10 Incidental Signs by District

                                                                                      Other
         Standard                Rural           Residential      C1 and LO        Commercial
                                                                                   / Industrial

  Incidental Sign Setback        10 feet             10 feet        20 feet            30 feet
  Perimeter Lot Signs
  Max. Number (per                 1                    1              2                 2
  entrance)
  Max. Sign Area                2 square             2 square       2 square          2 square
                                   feet                 feet           feet              feet
  Max. Height                    4 feet               4 feet         4 feet            4 feet
  Interior Lot Signs



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 118
  Max. Number (per acre)        10                    10                20               20
  Max. Sign Area (number 1 at 16 square        1 at 16 square    1 at 32 square    1 at 32 square
  of signs of each size) feet                  feet              feet              feet
                          9 at 4 square         9 at 4 square    19 at 4 square    19 at 4 square
                          feet                  feet             feet              feet
  Max. Height                    12 feet           12 feet           12 feet            12 feet
  Max. Copy Height               4 inches         4 inches          4 inches          4 inches
  Sign Features
  Illumination                    Yes               Yes               Yes               Yes
  Animation                        No                No                No                No

      1. Incidental Sign Setback. The incidental sign setback is the setback from any street
         frontage that regulates the location and size of incidental signs. Table 8-3-12-10:
         Incidental Signs by District defines the incidental sign setback for each district.
         Incidental signs on a lot must comply with the applicable incidental sign setback for
         the district. Figure 8-3-12-1 illustrates the sign setback for incidental sign locations.

        Figure 8-3-12-1 Incidental Sign Setback




          a. Lot Perimeter Signs. Lot perimeter signs are signs that may be located between
             the right-of-way and the applicable sign setback.
          b. Lot Interior Signs. Lot interior signs must be located on the interior of a lot and
             may not be located within the sign setback.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 119
          2. Number and Location
                 a. Lot Perimeter Signs. Table 8-3-12-10 defines the maximum number of lot
                    perimeter signs per entrance to a public street. All lot perimeter signs must be
                    located within fifteen feet (15’) of an entrance to a public street.
                 b. Lot Interior Signs
                        1. Table 8-3-12-10 defines the maximum number of lot interior signs per
                           acre. The standards generally allow different sizes of signs in different
                           numbers for each district. The standards allow one larger incidental sign
                           that exceeds the sign area and height allowance for smaller incidental
                           signs.
                        2. Lot interior signs may be located on a building façade if the building is
                           within the incidental sign setback.
       3. Design Standards
          a. Roof Signs Prohibited. Roof signs are prohibited. Incidental signs shall not extend
             above the eaves line or parapet of the building.
          b. Wall Signs. An incidental sign on a wall must affix flush against the wall of the
             building.
   J. Temporary Signs
       1. Standards. Temporary signs are allowed without a permit in all districts but must
          comply with the standards in Table 8-3-12-11: Temporary Signs by District.

Table 8-3-12-11 Temporary Signs by District

  Standard                   Rural           Residential          C1 and             Other
                                                                   LO             Commercial
                                                                                  / Industrial

  Max. Number
  (per property)               6                  6                  6                  6

  Total Sign Area
  (per property)         64 square feet     64 square feet     96 square feet     96 square feet

  Max. Sign Area
  (per sign)             32 square feet      4 square feet     32 square feet     32 square feet

  Max. Sign
  Height                     12 feet            8 feet             8 feet            12 feet

  Illumination                 No                No                 Yes                Yes
  Animation
  Allowed                      No                No                 No                 No




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 120
     2. Number. Table 8-3-12-11 defines the maximum number of temporary signs per
        property at any one time.
     3. Sign Area. Table 8-3-12-11 provides a cumulative area (total sign area) for all
        temporary signs and a maximum area for one sign (max. sign area).
     4. Duration for Display. One temporary sign may be displayed for a maximum of one
        (1) year.
     5. Removal of Signs. The owner of the sign or the owner of the property where the sign
        is located must completely remove the sign at the expiration of the time for display of
        the sign.
  K. Billboards
     1. Where Allowed
        a. Billboards are:
            1. Allowed principal permitted uses in the Commercial and Industrial Districts,
               except as provided below; and
            2. Prohibited in transitional districts, LO, and CI.
        b. In addition to the zoning district limitations, billboards are only permitted on
           property that abuts a Federal Interstate Highway or U.S. Highway, an Idaho State
           Highway, or a street classified as an arterial on the County’s Master Street Map.
           Billboards are not permitted on sites abutting other street classifications or within
           scenic byway corridors.
     2. Sign Standards
        a. Billboards must comply with the standards in 8-3-12-12: Billboard Standards by
           District.

       Table 8-3-12-12 Billboard Standards by District

                                                 Residential,
      Standard                    Rural                             Other Commercial/
                                                 Transitional,
                                                                        Industrial
                                                 C1 and LO

      Max. Sign Area         650 square feet      Not allowed          650 square feet
      Max. Sign Height           50 feet                                     40
                                                                            feet
      Illumination                 Yes                                      Yes
      Animation                    20%                                      20%

        b. The minimum clearance between ground level and the lowest point of display
           surface, exclusive of supports, is at least six (6’).



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 121
     3. Location
        a. The billboard’s location must comply with all established building lines and
           required setbacks as outlined in this Chapter and all other ordinances of the County.
        b. Where there is no building setback line established by ordinance or subdivision
           plat, billboards must be set back from the front lot line at least twenty-five feet
           (25’).
        c. If a railroad right-of-way crosses a public right-of-way, required setbacks, or
           established building lines on adjacent properties are extended through or across the
           railroad right-of-way.
        d. A billboard may not be constructed, erected, or placed in any way on the roof or
           walls of a building. A billboard may be constructed over but not on a roof if there
           is a minimum distance between the roof and the lowest point of the sign surface of
           ten feet (10’).
     4. Spacing Between Billboards
        a. A billboard shall not be constructed, erected, placed, or replaced closer than seven
           hundred fifty feet (750’) to another billboard in any direction.
        b. The measurement for the spacing requirement is from the center of the sign support
           structure.
     5. Spacing from Districts or Uses
        a. A billboard shall not be constructed, erected, placed, or replaced closer than fifty
           feet (50’) to the nearest property zoned R4, R6, and R8.
        b. A billboard shall not be constructed, erected, placed, or replaced closer than one
           hundred fifty feet (150’) to the nearest detached single-family residential building.
     6. Lighting. Billboards may be illuminated in compliance with Section 8-3-8 (Lighting)
        of this Chapter, and any other applicable ordinances. However, no flashing or
        intermittent lighting of billboards is permitted.
  L. Nonconforming Signs
     1. Nonconforming signs are a nonconforming use or structure and may continue in use
        subject to the standards set forth in Chapter 7 of this Title.
     2. Signs or sign structures for a nonconforming use may not be enlarged, altered, or
        relocated, other than as provided in this Section or in Section 8-7-3 (Nonconforming
        Structures) of this Title.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 122
                                 CHAPTER 4
                             USE STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-4-1:     PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
8-4-2:     ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
8-4-3:     ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT
8-4-4:     AIRPORT / AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD (PRIVATE)
8-4-5:     AMUSEMENT OR RECREATION FACILITY, OUTDOOR
8-4-6:     ASPHALT OR CONCRETE READY MIX PLANT
8-4-7:     AUCTION
8-4-8:     AUTOMOTIVE, HOBBY
8-4-9:     BAR; BREWPUB OR DISTILLERY; OR NIGHTCLUB
8-4-10:    BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT
8-4-11:    CAMPGROUND
8-4-12:    CAR WASH
8-4-13:    CEMETARY
8-4-14:    COMPOSTING FACILITY
8-4-15:    CONTRACTOR YARD
8-4-16:    CREMATORY
8-4-17:    DANGEROUS OR PROTECTED ANIMALS
8-4-18:    DAY CARE (DAY CARE CENTER, FAMILY DAY CARE HOME, GROUP
           DAY CARE FACILITY)
8-4-19:    DRIVE-UP ESTABLISHMENT
8-4-20:    (RESERVED)
8-4-21:    DWELLING, ADDITIONAL FARM
8-4-22:    DWELLING, CARETAKER
8-4-23:    DWELLING, SECONDARY ATTACHED OR DETACHED
8-4-24:    EVENT CENTER
8-4-25:    EXPLOSIVE MANUFACTURING OR STORAGE
8-4-26:    FOUNDRY
8-4-27:    FREIGHT OR TRUCK TERMINAL
8-4-28:    FUEL SALES
8-4-29:    FUNERAL SERVICES
8-4-30:    GROUP FOSTER HOME
8-4-31:    HEAVY EQUIPMENT SALES OR SERVICE
8-4-32:    HEAVY TRUCK WASH FACILITY
8-4-33:    HOME OCCUPATION
8-4-34:    HOTEL OR MOTEL
8-4-35:    JUNKYARD OR AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD
8-4-36:    KENNEL, COMMERCIAL
8-4-37:    KENNEL, HOBBY
8-4-38:    LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT FACILITY
8-4-39:    MANUFACTURING, HEAVY
8-4-40:    MANUFACTURING, LIGHT
8-4-41:    MANUFACTURED HOME PARK
8-4-42:    MANUFACTURED HOME STORAGE

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 123
8-4-43:       MEATPACKING / SLAUGHTERHOUSE FACILITY
8-4-44:       MEDICAL CARE FACILITY
8-4-45:       MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING
8-4-46:       NURSERY, WHOLESALE OR RETAIL
8-4-47:       OFFICE, ACCESSORY
8-4-48:       OFFICE, TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION
8-4-49:       OUTDOOR STORAGE AREA, ACCESSORY
8-4-50:       PERSONAL SERVICES
8-4-51:       PIT, MINE, OR QUARRY
8-4-52:       PORTABLE CLASSROOM
8-4-53:       POSTAL SERVICE
8-4-54:       POWER FACILITIES
8-4-55:       PROCESSING PLANTS FOR AGRICULTURAL OR DAIRY PRODUCTS
8-4-56:       PRODUCE STAND, AGRICULTURAL OR ROADSIDE
8-4-57:       PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC USE
8-4-58:       RACETRACK
8-4-59:       RAILROAD SWICHING YARD
8-4-60:       RECREATION VEHICLE PARK
8-4-61:       RECYCLING CENTER
8-4-62:       RETAIL SALES, ACCESSORY
8-4-63:       SANITARY LANDFILL
8-4-64:       SAWMILL OR PLANING MILL
8-4-65:       SCHOOL
8-4-66:       SEASONAL FARMWORKER HOUSING
8-4-67:       SEPTAGE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY
8-4-68:       SHOOTING RANGE
8-4-69:       SOIL OR WATER REMEDIATION
8-4-70:       STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE
8-4-71:       STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE – OUTDOOR ONLY
8-4-72:       TANNERY
8-4-73:       TEMPORARY USES
8-4-74:       TOWER OR ANTENNA STRUCTURES, COMMERCIAL
8-4-75:       TOWER OR ANTENNA STRUCTURE, PRIVATE
8-4-76:       TRANSIT FACILITY
8-4-77:       TRUCK STOP
8-4-78:       VEHICLE IMPOUND YARD
8-4-79:       VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR; MINOR; VEHICLE SALES
8-4-80:       WINERY
8-4-1:    Purpose and Applicability
   A. Purpose. This Chapter provides additional standards for specific uses listed in Table 8-2-
      23-2 (Use Table).
   B. Applicability. This Chapter applies to any property in unincorporated Ada County where
      the specific use is listed as a permitted, accessory, or conditional use in the base district or
      overlay district.
   C. Use Table. Table 8-2-23-2 (Use Table) identifies which use requires specific use standards


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 124
         with a cross-reference to the applicable Section of this Chapter.
   D. Standards Supplemental. These standards are in addition to the requirements of the
      applicable zoning district (Chapter 2), generally applicable development standards
      (Chapter 3), and other requirements of this Title.
   E. Separation Measurement. This subsection applies to any required separation between a
      use and a zoning district or another use.
         1. If the separation is from a use, measurement is made in a straight line, without regard
            to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure
            housing the use to the nearest property line of the other use, unless otherwise stated.
         2. If the separation is from a zoning district, the measurement is made in a straight line,
            without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the
            building or structure housing the use to the closest boundary line of the zoning district,
            unless otherwise stated.
8-4-2:      Accessory Uses and Structures
   A. Accessory Uses
         1. Approval. These regulations apply to any property in unincorporated Ada County
            where an accessory use is allowed under the regulations of this Title and where the
            property has an established principally permitted use.
         2. General Standards. In addition to the specific use standards set forth in this Chapter,
            the following standards apply to accessory uses:
            a. The Director may require additional conditions to mitigate impacts. The conditions
               may include, but not be limited to, any or all of the following:
                1. Standards related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other potentially
                   objectionable impacts.
                2. Limits on time of day for the conduct of the specified use.
                3. The period within which the permit shall be exercised or otherwise lapse.
                4. Other standards necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and
                   mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
   B. Accessory Structures
         1. General Standards
            a. A principal permitted dwelling with zoning or building approval, or a principal
               permitted dwelling under construction with a valid building permit, is present on
               the subject property.
            b. The structure is not used as an additional dwelling, except as provided for
               secondary dwellings.
            c. The structure is not used for commercial or industrial purposes unless approved as
               part of a home occupation.
            d. The accessory structure does not store commercial vehicles, except as provided in


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 125
                subsection 8-3-10D1.b.
            e. Coverage calculations include all accessory structures for a particular property.
         2. Location Standards. The following location restrictions apply to accessory structures:
            a. Accessory structures shall not be located in any required setbacks or on any publicly
               dedicated easements.
            b. Accessory structures in the front yard shall not impede connection of the dwelling
               to a municipal wastewater collection and treatment system.
            c. Accessory structures in the front yard shall not block the view of the main entrance
               to the principal permitted dwelling.
         3. Height Standards. An accessory structure shall not exceed a height of twenty-four feet
            (24').
         4. Design Standards. The roofing and finish materials of accessory structures shall be
            complimentary to the principal permitted structure.
8-4-3:      Adult Entertainment Establishment
   A. Separation. In recognition of Idaho Code Section 67-6533, the following required distance
      separations apply (see subsection 8-4-1E for measurement standards):
         1. No adult entertainment establishment is allowed within one thousand feet (1,000') of
            another existing adult entertainment establishment.
         2. No adult entertainment establishment is allowed within two thousand five hundred feet
            (2,500') of any religious land use.
         3. No adult entertainment establishment is allowed within two thousand five hundred feet
            (2,500') of any school.
         4. The application shall provide evidence certified by a professional land surveyor
            licensed in the state of Idaho that the proposed adult entertainment establishment
            conforms to the separation requirements of this subsection A.
   B. Signs
         1. All adult entertainment establishments shall comply with Section 8-3-12.
         2. An adult entertainment establishment shall have in place at each entrance to such
            business a legible door sign (as defined herein) stating "Persons under eighteen (18)
            years of age not permitted." The sign shall be no less than one half (0.5) square feet
            and no greater than one (1) square foot in area. This sign shall not require administrative
            approval as set forth in Section 8-3-12.
8-4-4:      Airport/Aircraft Landing Field (Private)
   A. Applicability
         1. Subsections B, C.1, D, E, F and G apply to any aircraft landing field (private).
         2. Subsections B, C.2, D, E, F, and G apply to airports.
   B. FAA Approval. Prior to application, the applicant or owner shall receive airspace approval


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 126
         from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
   C. Design
         1. The runway design for an aircraft landing field (private) shall comply with the design
            and construction standards and recommendations in the Federal Aviation
            Administration handbook entitled “Airport Design,” Advisory Circular 150/5300-13.
         2. A proposed airport shall meet the design standards of the federal aviation
            administration for the particular class or field.
   D. Verification of Regulatory Compliance. If applicable, verification of compliance with
      the regulations and requirements of the following agencies shall be provided:
         1. Federal Aviation Administration.
         2. Idaho Transportation Department (Bureau of Aeronautics).
         3. Idaho Military Division-National Guard.
         4. The City of Boise Airport Commission.
   E. Accessory Uses. An airport master site plan shall include any accessory uses such as fuel
      storage areas, structures, or facilities for storing and maintenance of aircraft, and any
      outdoor storage or tie down areas.
   F. Fuel Tanks. As applicable, written approval for fuel tanks from the Idaho Division of
      Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water Resources, and the appropriate fire
      authority shall be provided.
   G. Prohibited Areas. Aircraft landing fields are prohibited in:
         1. The Snake River Birds of Prey natural area and canyon preservation as noted on the
            Ada County comprehensive plan generalized future land use map; or
         2. The Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area.
8-4-5:      Amusement or Recreation Facility, Outdoor
   A. General Standards
         1. All outdoor activities and events shall comply with Section 5-13-3 of the Ada County
            Code.
         2. All illumination shall terminate by one hour after the event’s conclusion.
   B. Drive-In Theater
         1. Projection Screen. The projection screen shall not be:
            a. Located closer than fifty feet (50') from any public street;
            b. Visible from a public street; and
            c. Located closer than three hundred feet (300') from a residential district or use.
         2. Access and Stacking
            a. The site shall have access from a principal or minor arterial.
            b. Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property, but outside the theater

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 127
                entrance.
            c. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the public
               right of way by theater patrons.
         3. Screening. A landscape plan for all property lines abutting a residential district shall
            include a six-foot (6’) sight obscuring fence, wall, or screen.
         4. Noise. Central loudspeakers are not permitted. Individual loudspeakers shall be
            designed to be heard by the occupants of one vehicle only.
         5. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use
            standards in this Chapter.
         6. Accessory Uses. Accessory retail uses (including, but not limited to, food or beverage
            service) associated with the theater may be allowed if designed for use by patrons of
            the drive-in theater only.
   C. Golf Course and Country Club
         1. Accessory Uses
            a. Accessory sales and rental of golf equipment are allowed. A restaurant and/or bar
               is allowed and is accessory to the golf course.
            b. All other accessory structures to the golf course shall not be located within one
               hundred feet (100') of an abutting property within a residential district.
            c. No outdoor recreation area associated with the country club shall be located within
               fifty feet (50') of any property line.
            d. If an outdoor swimming pool is proposed on site, the pool shall be enclosed with a
               six-foot (6') barrier that meets the requirements of the Ada County Building Code
               as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
         2. Design. The golf driving range design shall protect abutting property and roadways
            from golf balls.
         3. Location. For reasons of public health, safety and welfare, an accessory country club
            or clubhouse shall only be allowed on property located within a fire district.
         4. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use
            standards of this Chapter.
   D. Golf Driving Range
         1. Accessory Uses. Accessory sales and rental of golf equipment are allowed.
         2. Design. The golf driving range design shall protect abutting property and roadways
            from golf balls.
   E. Swimming Pool. Any outdoor swimming pool shall be completely enclosed within a six-
      foot (6') barrier that meets the requirements of the Ada County Building Code as set forth
      in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
8-4-6:      Asphalt or Concrete Ready-Mix Plant
   A. Accessory Use. Asphalt mixing and concrete batching may be allowed as accessory uses


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 128
         to a pit, mine, or quarry in the Rural Preservation (RP) and Rural Residential (RR) districts.
   B. Separation. Any structure or equipment shall be set back at least one thousand feet (1,000')
      from any dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner or caretaker of the subject property.
   C. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use standards
      of this Chapter.
8-4-7:      Auction
   A. Generally
         1. Outdoor auction facilities are only allowed in rural districts.
         2. Outdoor auctions that exclude the sales and trading of livestock are allowed in all other
            districts.
   B. Separation. A three-hundred-foot (300') separation shall be maintained between the area
      and structures where animals are housed and any residential district or use.
   C. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use standards
      of this Chapter.
8-4-8:      Automotive, Hobby
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any automotive hobby. It is the intent of this
      regulation to allow for restoration, maintenance, and/or preservation of motor vehicles as
      a hobby. The following standards shall apply:
         1. No wholesale or retail sale of automotive parts or supplies.
         2. No commercial restoration, repair, or maintenance of motor vehicles.
         3. The site does not create a public nuisance, junkyard, or automobile wrecking yard.
         4. No more than two (2) inoperable, dismantled, or unregistered motor vehicles may be
            visible from any street or private road. All other inoperable, dismantled, or unregistered
            motor vehicles shall be stored:
            a. In the rear or side yard behind a sight obscuring fence, wall, or screen that is not
               less than six feet (6') tall; or
            b. Within a completely enclosed structure.
8-4-9:      Bar; Brewpub or Distillery; or Nightclub
   A. Generally. The use shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding the sale,
      manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   B. Separation. See subsection 8-4-1E for measurement standards.
         1. No bar, brewpub or distillery, or nightclub shall be located within one thousand feet
            (1,000’) of any religious land use or school property.
         2. No bar, brewpub or distillery, or nightclub shall be located within three hundred feet
            (300’) of any residential use.
         3. The application shall provide evidence certified by a professional land surveyor
            licensed in the state of Idaho that the proposed bar, brewpub or distillery, or nightclub


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 129
             conforms to the separation requirements of this subsection A.
   C. Outside Activity. For properties abutting a residential district, no outside activity or event
      shall be allowed on the site.
8-4-10:      Bed and Breakfast Establishment
   A. Owner Occupancy
          1. A bed and breakfast establishment is an owner occupied dwelling.
          2. For the purposes of this subsection, an “owner” means a person with a fifty percent
             (50%) or greater interest in the bed and breakfast establishment.
   B. Renovations
          1. If remodeling or renovating an existing structure, the exterior appearance of the
             structure shall resemble a single-family dwelling.
          2. Fire escapes and other features may be added to protect public safety; however,
             structural alterations may not be made that would prevent future use of the structure as
             a single-family dwelling.
   C. Occupancy Limit. No more than ten (10) occupants (including, but not limited to, the
      owner, the owner’s family, and any resident or nonresident employees) shall occupy the
      bed and breakfast establishment at any one time (daytime, evening, or night).
8-4-11:      Campground
   A. Design Standards
          1. Location. The specific location of each proposed cabin, campsite, or recreational
             vehicle space shall be indicated on the master site plan.
          2. Landscape Setbacks
             a. Property boundaries adjacent to a public right of way require a fifty-foot (50’)
                landscaped setback with protective screening or fencing.
             b. Those property boundaries abutting private property shall require a fifty-foot (50’)
                landscape setback with protective fencing.
          3. Separation. A three-hundred-foot (300’) separation shall be maintained between any
             outdoor activity area (including campsites and recreation facilities) and any residential
             district.
   B. Accessory Uses. Accessory uses including, but not limited to, management headquarters,
      recreational structures, coin-operated laundry facilities, toilets, and showers may be
      allowed, subject to the following restrictions.
          1. These uses shall be restricted in their use to occupants of the campground.
          2. These uses shall present no visible evidence of their commercial character to attract
             customers other than occupants of the campground.
          3. The structures enclosing these uses shall not be located closer than one hundred feet
             (100') to any public street and shall not be directly accessible from any public street but
             shall be accessible only from a drive within the campground.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 130
   C. Use of Spaces. Spaces may be used by tents or temporary shelter arrangements or devices
      (including recreational vehicles).
8-4-12:      Car Wash
   A. Site Plan. All businesses providing self-service or drive-through car wash facilities shall
      identify the stacking lane and wash location on the master site plan.
   B. Accessory Use. If within the C1 district, a car wash facility shall be allowed only as an
      accessory use to a gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales facility. The car wash facility
      shall limit capacity to a single vehicle.
   C. Setbacks. At least one hundred feet (100') shall separate any car wash facility and any
      residential district or use.
   D. Stacking Lanes
          1. Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but outside the car wash
             facility entrance.
          2. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the public right
             of way by patrons.
          3. These stacking lanes shall be separate from areas required for access and parking and
             depicted on the master site plan showing the car capacity and adequate turning radius
             for standard vehicles.
          4. The stacking lanes shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any residential district or
             use.
8-4-13:      Cemetery
   A. Generally
          1. For the purposes of this subsection, the term "structures" shall include, but not be
             limited to, mausolea, columbaria, and crypts.
          2. Structures shall conform to the height limitation and required yards for the applicable
             base district.
   B. Separation
             1. No structure, excluding fences or walls, shall be located within one hundred feet
                (100') from any existing dwelling other than the dwelling of the owner or caretaker.
             2. Graves and monuments shall be set back at least fifteen feet (15') from any property
                line.
   C. Platting. All cemeteries shall be platted according to Chapter 5, Subdivision Standards.
   D. Private Ownership. If the cemetery is privately owned, the cemetery shall be established
      as a perpetual care cemetery in accord with Idaho Code Section 27-401.
   E. Accessory Uses. If the cemetery use includes a mortuary, the mortuary is considered an
      accessory use to the cemetery.
8-4-14:      Composting Facility



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 131
   A. Generally. The use shall comply with all applicable regulations pertaining to designation,
      licensing, and maintenance of commercial composting facilities including, but not limited
      to, federal, state, and local statutes, rules, and/or ordinances.
   B. Grass Composting. Grass composting shall only be allowed when the application can
      demonstrate that the use will not cause undue adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
   C. Separation. All structures, outdoor storage areas, or any areas where compost is stored
      shall be located at least one hundred feet (100') from any residential district or use.
   D. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use standards
      of this Chapter.
   E. Compost Material not a Fertilizer. For the purposes of this subsection, compost material
      is not considered a fertilizer, and is not restricted by Section 8-3-2J.
8-4-15:       Contractor Yard
   A. General Standards
          1. Outdoor Storage Area. In addition to the specific use standards for outdoor storage
             areas in this Chapter, the following additional standards apply:
              a. If the property is located in a residential or rural base district, all outdoor storage
                 areas shall be located at least fifty feet (50') from any property line abutting other
                 property and depicted on the master site plan.
              b. The fifty-foot (50') buffer from the property line shall have a vegetative ground
                 cover or decorative rock mulch and shall be regularly maintained to prevent weed
                 growth.
              c. All structures and outdoor storage areas shall be depicted on the master site plan.
          2. Structures. If the property is located in a transitional or rural base district, all structures
             shall be located at least fifty feet (50') from any property line abutting other property
             and depicted on the master site plan.
          3. Property Size. If the property is located in a residential or rural base district the
             minimum property size for a contractor's yard shall be three (3) acres.
          4. The site shall not be used as a "junkyard" or "automobile wrecking yard" as defined in
             Chapter 10.
          5. For the purposes of this Title, a contractor's yard or shop is not a home occupation.
          6. Access. The property shall have approved access from an improved public roadway for
             the use.
          7. Accessory Uses
              a. Maintenance of vehicles or machinery shall be incidental to the contractor's yard or
                 shop and the incidental use shall only include minor repair.
              b. Accessory office space shall comply with the accessory office use requirements of
                 this Chapter and shall be identified on the master site plan.
              c. No retail sales associated with a contractor's yard or shop may occur on the property


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 132
                 unless retail sales are approved with a different use that allows retail sales.
          8. Parking
             a. Parking area improvements shall be delineated on the master site plan or parking
                plan.
             b. No on-street parking of vehicles or equipment associated with the use is allowed.
          9. Hours of Operation. Hours of operation are limited between the hours of seven o'clock
             (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. or as specified in a conditional use permit.
          10. Change in Use. A building permit may be required for the change in use or occupancy
              of any existing structure, or portion thereof, used in association with a contractor yard.
          11. Inspection
             a. For the duration of the approval, the use shall be subject to zoning inspection upon
                advanced notice and request by the Development Services Department.
             b. If a permit holder refuses to allow inspection of the premises by the Development
                Services Department, the approved zoning certificate or conditional use permit may
                be revoked.
   B. Additional Standards. Additional standards for a contractor yard permitted as a
      conditional use:
          1. Application Requirements. The application materials shall include the following
             documentation:
             a. The proximity of existing dwellings;
             b. The number of employees at the largest shift;
             c. The hours and days of operation;
             d. The number and type of vehicles that will be stored/used on the site;
             e. Dust;
             f. Noise;
             g. Outdoor loading; and
             h. Traffic.
          2. Duration. The duration of a conditional use permit for a contractor yard shall be limited
             within the RR, RP, RSW, and RUT Districts. The conditional use permit shall expire
             five (5) years following the approval date, or upon annexation of the subject property
             into a city, whichever occurs first. Upon expiration of the conditional use permit, all
             equipment and materials stored outdoors shall be removed within thirty (30) days from
             the subject property.
8-4-16:      Crematory
   A. State Approval. The written approval from the state of Idaho Department of
      Environmental Quality shall be provided.
   B. Setbacks. A crematory, whether lying within or without the limits of a cemetery, shall set


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 133
          back at least one hundred feet (100') from any property line. Written documentation shall
          be provided that the crematory structures and equipment shall not create a public nuisance
          by reason of smoke or odor extending beyond or outside of the property lines of the subject
          premises.
   C. Fire Requirements. A mortuary may be allowed as an accessory use to a cemetery when
      located within a fire district and/or when fire flow is available.
8-4-17:      Dangerous or Protected Animal
   A. Standards
          1. The facility, which may include more than one structure, must be located within a rural
             base district on at least forty (40) contiguous acres of land.
          2. A conditional use permit shall be required for approval of a conceptual development
             plan.
             a. The Commission shall determine the approval period for the conceptual
                development.
             b. The maximum allowable time period shall not exceed twenty (20) years.
          3. Allowable ancillary uses consistent with the research and educational mission of the
             endangered or protected species research facility, can be established at the time of
             conditional use permit approval of a conceptual development plan. These uses may
             include, but not be limited to:
             a. Museums;
             b. Visitor Centers;
             c. Incidental Retail;
             d. Libraries;
             e. Classrooms;
             f. Offices;
             g. Meeting Spaces;
             h. Staff Residences;
             i. Storage Buildings; and
             j. Veterinary and Laboratory Facilities.
          4. Additional ancillary uses identified at time of conceptual development plan application
             may require separate conditional use approval at the time of development.
          5. Unless specifically exempted or amended as part of an approved conditional use permit,
             all structures and uses, with the exception of incidental storage or utility structures
             having a building footprint of more than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet,
             shall set back two hundred feet (200') from any property line abutting a residential use.
          6. In no case shall setbacks be reduced below the minimum standards for the base zoning
             district unless a variance is approved (see Section 8-6-31).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 134
          7. Incidental storage or utility structures having a building footprint of less than one
             thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet shall comply with standard setbacks for the
             base zoning district.
8-4-18:      Day Care (Day Care Center, Family Day Care Home, Group Day Care Facility)
   A. Applicability
          1. This Section applies to any day care facility or innovation classroom (as defined in
             Section 33-1636, Idaho Code).
          2. For purposes of this Title, innovation classrooms with the following number of
             students are treated as the following for purposes of this Ordinance, including the Use
             Table and this Section:

                 Table 8-4-18-1 Innovation Classrooms

                            Number of Students                   Applicable Zoning Regulations
                                   <6                               Family Day Care Home
                                  7-12                              Group Day Care Facility
                                  > 13                                  Day Care Center

   B. Family Day Care Homes. Family day care homes shall comply with the following:
          1. If any of the clients cared for at the family day care home are younger than seven (7)
             years of age, a criminal history check of staff shall be obtained from the Idaho
             Department of Health and Welfare.
          2. Hours of operation are limited to six-thirty (6:30) A.M. to seven (7:00) P.M.
   C. Group Day Care Facilities. Group day care facilities shall comply with the following:
          1. There shall be at least thirty-five (35) square feet of net floor area indoors per client.
             This space shall be measured wall-to-wall in rooms that are regularly used by the
             clients, exclusive of halls, bathrooms, and kitchen.
          2. Overnight parking is not allowed. On-site parking for the group day care facility shall
             not use the parking space(s) required for the dwelling unit or other approved uses
             located on the site.
          3. A minimum outdoor recreation area of one hundred (100) square feet per client shall
             be provided. The Director may waive the minimum recreation area requirement if a
             park abuts the property that can be used by the clients.
          4. All outdoor areas shall be completely enclosed by a minimum of six-foot (6') barriers
             to secure against exit or entry by small children and to screen abutting properties. The
             fencing material shall meet the swimming pool barrier requirements of the Ada County
             Building Code as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
          5. Outdoor play equipment over six feet (6') high shall not be located in any required yard.
          6. Minimum staff required is one staff person per six (6) clients younger than eighteen
             (18) months and one staff person per twelve (12) clients eighteen (18) months old or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 135
         older.
     7. A fire inspection is required. The applicant or owner shall apply to the local fire district,
        or, if not located within a fire district, to the Idaho fire marshal.
     8. If any of the clients cared for at the group day care facility are younger than seven (7)
        years of age, a criminal history check of staff is required from the Idaho Department of
        Health and Welfare, per Idaho Code Section 39-1114.
     9. Hours of operation are limited to six-thirty (6:30) A.M. to seven (7:00) P.M.
  D. Day Care Centers. Day care centers shall comply with the following:
     1. There shall be at least thirty-five (35) square feet of net floor area indoors per client.
        This space shall be measured wall to wall in rooms that are regularly used by the clients,
        exclusive of halls, bathrooms, and kitchen.
     2. On-site vehicle parking and pick up and turnaround areas shall provide safe discharge
        and pick up of clients.
     3. The maximum number of allowable clients shall be a condition of approval, based on
        the requirements of this Title and Idaho Code.
     4. Consideration of approval shall include the uses of the surrounding properties in the
        determination of the compatibility of the proposed day care center with those uses.
        Additional conditions needed to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the
        clients may be imposed.
     5. No portion of the facilities used by clients may be within three hundred feet (300') of
        explosive or hazardous material or alcohol storage including the following uses:
        brewery or distillery, explosive manufacturing or storage, flammable substance
        storage, gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales facility, manufacture or processing of
        hazardous chemicals or gases, and winery.
     6. The day care center operator shall secure and maintain any required license from the
        state of Idaho Department of Health and Welfare and comply with all state regulations.
        The day care operator shall apply to the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare for
        any required inspections and criminal history checks.
     7. The day care center operator shall provide a minimum outdoor recreation area of one
        hundred (100) square feet per client. The minimum recreation area requirement may be
        waived if:
         a. There is greater or equal area of parks that abut the facility that can be used by the
            clients, or
         b. The program design is such that the number of clients using the recreation area at
            any one time conforms to the one hundred (100) square foot per client criteria.
     8. All outdoor recreation areas shall be completely enclosed by a minimum of six-foot
        (6') barriers to secure against exit/entry by small children and to screen abutting
        properties. The fencing material shall meet the swimming pool barrier requirements of
        the Ada County Building Code as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
     9. Outdoor play equipment over six feet (6') high shall not be located in any required yard.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 136
          10. The proposed use shall be located and designed to protect the health, safety, and welfare
              of the clients.
          11. Minimum staff required is one per six (6) clients under eighteen (18) months; one per
              twelve (12) clients eighteen (18) months to five (5) years; and one per eighteen (18)
              clients aged five (5) years or older.
          12. A commercial building permit is required for the entire structure(s) used for the day
              care center.
          13. Hours of operation are limited to six thirty (6:30) A.M. to seven (7:00) P.M. or as
              specified in the conditional use permit.
8-4-19:Drive-Up Establishment
   A. Site Plan. All drive-up establishments shall identify the stacking lane, menu, and speaker
      location (if applicable), and window location on the master site plan.
   B. Stacking Lane
          1. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the public right
             of way by patrons.
          2. The stacking lane shall be a separate lane from the circulation lanes needed for access
             and parking and depicted on the master site plan showing the car capacity and adequate
             turning radius for standard vehicles.
          3. The stacking lane shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any residential district or
             use.
8-4-20:      (Reserved)
8-4-21:      Dwelling, Additional Farm
   A. Farm Requirement. The additional farm dwelling shall be located on a "farm" as defined
      in Chapter 10, Definitions.
   B. Occupancy. The additional farm dwelling shall be occupied by households where at least
      one individual is an “employee” (as defined in Chapter 10, Definitions) on the farm.
   C. Location
          1. The location of the additional farm dwelling shall be:
             a. On an existing or previously abandoned farmstead; or
             b. Not on prime agricultural land as herein defined.
          2. If such alternatives are not available, the farthest extent of the additional farm dwelling
             shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of the existing farm dwelling.
          3. The additional farm dwelling shall not conflict with existing or proposed wastewater
             treatment systems.
   D. Demonstration. The application shall demonstrate the need for the additional farm
      dwelling based on characteristics of the farm and/or farm operation. These characteristics
      shall include, but are not limited to:



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 137
          1. The size of the entire farm including all other property used for the farm operation
             within the immediate area.
          2. The types of farm crops and acreage for each type.
          3. The operational requirements for the particular farm activity.
          4. The number of other permanent or temporary dwellings on the farm.
          5. The numbers of owners/employees/workers on the farm (including permanent and
             seasonal).
8-4-22:      Dwelling, Caretaker
   A. Justification. A caretaker dwelling is allowed if:
          1. It is needed to house the owner or the owner's employee of an approved use, and
          2. Need for the caretaker dwelling is justified for reasons of upkeep on the property,
             supervision of operations, and/or guarding materials stored on site.
   B. Employee Residence. The caretaker dwelling shall be occupied by households where at
      least one individual is an employee.
   C. Number of Additional Dwellings. No more than one permanent additional dwelling
      (including, but not limited to, principally permitted dwelling, caretaker dwelling, additional
      farm dwelling, or secondary dwelling) is permitted on a property.
8-4-23:      Dwelling, Secondary Attached or Detached
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any secondary attached or detached dwelling and
      details the standards required to ensure these dwelling types remain incidental and
      subordinate to the principal permitted dwelling.
   B. General Standards
          1. Principal Dwelling. A principal permitted dwelling with a valid zoning certificate and
             certificate of occupancy, or a principal permitted dwelling under construction with a
             valid building permit, must be present on the subject property.
          2. Number Allowed. No more than one permanent additional dwelling including, but not
             limited to, an additional farm dwelling, caretaker dwelling, or a secondary dwelling
             shall be permitted on a property.
          3. Occupancy. Either the principal dwelling or the secondary dwelling must be
             continuously occupied by at least one (1) person having ownership interest in the
             subject property.
          4. Property Size. The subject property shall have a minimum property size of at least six
             thousand (6,000) square feet.
          5. Dimensional Standards. All secondary dwellings shall meet the dimensional
             standards for the applicable zoning district.
   C. Design Standards
          1. Size. A secondary dwelling may be between three hundred fifty (350) square feet up to
             a maximum of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet or sixty percent (60%) of


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 138
         the square footage of above-ground living space of the principal dwelling, whichever
         is less.
         a. 60% Calculation. The square footage of covered outdoor space, basements or
            attached/detached garages associated with the principal dwelling must be excluded
            from the 60% calculation.
     2. Bedrooms. Secondary dwellings are limited to a maximum of three (3) bedrooms.
     3. Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as per Section 8-3-10 in addition to the
        required off street parking for the principal dwelling.
     4. Appearance. The secondary dwelling shall be complementary with the principal
        permitted dwelling in that it:
         a. Does not appear like a second principal dwelling;
         b. Has a similar roof pitch; and
         c. Has similar color of building materials.
     5. Facilities. The secondary dwelling shall have separate kitchen and bathroom facilities
        from the principal permitted dwelling.
     6. Utilities. The secondary dwelling shall be provided with utilities which may be metered
        separately - including gas, electric, communications, water and sewer all subject to the
        approval of applicable utility companies and public agencies.
     7. Entry. Secondary dwellings shall be provided with a primary point of ingress and
        egress separate from the principal dwelling.
     8. Emergency Access. Secondary dwellings shall be provided with a separate address, a
        unique identifier, or other means to enable emergency service providers to identify and
        distinguish the dwelling unit from the principal dwelling. Adequate physical access for
        emergency services to both the principal and secondary dwellings shall be provided.
     9. Foundation. Secondary dwellings shall be placed on a foundation.
  D. Additional Standards for Detached Secondary Dwelling Units
     1. Location. A secondary dwelling shall not be located in the front yard unless the
        principal dwelling, and its address indicator can remain unobscured, and one or more
        of the following can be demonstrated:
         a. The depth of the lot or parcel is two hundred fifty feet (250’) or less; or
         b. The configuration of the property and location of the principal dwelling would
            preclude the location of the secondary dwelling to meet the required back yard
            and/or side yard setbacks.
         2. Outdoor Space. A minimum of fifty (50) square feet of outdoor space like a porch,
            patio, or balcony shall be provided for the exclusive use of the residents of the
            dwelling.
  E. Conversion. An existing garage, basement or a detached accessory structure may be
     converted into a secondary dwelling, provided that the conversion or structure meets the
     standards of this Section, along with all applicable requirements of the Ada County

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 139
          Building Code, as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code, any applicable plumbing or
          electrical code requirements, and any applicable off-street parking requirements for both
          the principal and secondary dwellings.
   F. Deed Restriction. A recorded deed restriction is required ensuring compliance with the
      following requirements and shall be submitted prior to issuance of a certificate of
      occupancy or final building permit inspection.
          1. Document Requirements. The deed restriction or covenant shall address the following
             topics:
             a. The secondary dwelling shall not be sold or owned separately from the principal
                dwelling.
             b. The secondary dwelling may be utilized as habitable space, only so long as either
                the principal dwelling or the secondary dwelling is occupied by at least one
                individual with ownership interest in the property.
             c. In the event that a minimum of one (1) person having ownership interest in the
                property ceases to occupy a dwelling on the property, the secondary dwelling shall
                automatically become non-habitable space, shall not be used as a dwelling and shall
                not be rented or leased for any purpose.
             d. The above restrictions shall be binding upon any successor in ownership of the
                property as long as the secondary dwelling exists on the property.
8-4-24:      Event Center
   A. Setbacks. All structures shall meet the minimum required setbacks for the applicable base
      district, or a thirty-five foot (35’) minimum setback from any public street and twenty-five
      feet (25') from any other property line, whichever is greater.
   B. Food Service. Any food service shall be approved by the Central District Health
      Department.
8-4-25:      Explosive Manufacturing or Storage
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any explosive manufacturing or storage as a
      principal use. This Section does not apply to gasoline fueling stations or research and
      development facilities.
   B. Separation
          1. At least one thousand feet (1,000') shall separate the use from any residential district or
             use or medical care facility.
          2. At least three hundred feet (300') shall separate all structures and outdoor activity areas
             from any property line.
   C. Enclosure
          1. The facility shall be enclosed by an eight foot (8') high security fence or wall.
          2. Entrance and exit shall be through a gate that shall be locked during nonbusiness hours.
   D. Fire Compliance. The application materials shall include written documentation from the
      appropriate fire authority approving the proposed location and plan specifications of the

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 140
          facilities.
   E. Application Materials
          1. The application materials shall include maps and engineering drawings showing:
              a. Proposed drainage;
              b. Proposed sewer system design;
              c. The depth of the water table;
              d. Soil composition;
              e. All existing surface water; and
              f. All existing uses within one-fourth (1/4) mile of the property.
          2. The application shall also provide evidence that the dangerous characteristics of the
             particular process or activity in question have been or shall be eliminated or minimized
             sufficiently to not create a public nuisance or be detrimental to the public health, safety,
             or welfare.
8-4-26:       Foundry
   A. Separation
          1. All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of three-hundred-
             feet (300’) from any property line.
          2. The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000’) from any residential
             district or approved hospital use.
8-4-27:       Freight or Truck Terminal
   A. Separation. The use shall be located:
          1. At least three hundred feet (300') from any residential district or use; and
          2. At least one thousand feet (1,000') from any medical care facility.
   B. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use standards
      in this Chapter.
   C. Accessory Uses. Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of vehicles
      (including, but not limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps, garages for minor
      repair) may be allowed.
   D. Installation. Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval from
      Idaho Division of Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water Resources, and the
      appropriate fire authority.
8-4-28:       Fuel Sales
   A. When allowed as an accessory use, gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales facilities shall
      not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the subject property.
   B. Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval from Idaho Division
      of Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water Resources, and the appropriate fire


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 141
          authority.
   C. Structures and pump station canopies on corner properties shall observe a thirty-five foot
      (35’) minimum setback from any public street. There shall be a twenty-five foot (25’)
      minimum setback from any residential district or use.
   D. The total height of any overhead canopy or weather protection device shall not exceed
      twenty feet (20’).
   E. Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but outside the fueling areas.
      Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the public right of
      way by patrons. Such stacking lanes shall be separate from areas required for access and
      parking. The stacking lanes shall not be located within ten feet (10’) of any residential
      district or use.
   F. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall meet the specific use standards in this
      Chapter. In addition, all trash, waste materials, and obsolete automobile parts shall be
      stored within a separate enclosure behind the principal structure of the gasoline, diesel, or
      alternative fuel sales facility.
8-4-29:      Funeral Services
   A. Fire Requirements. A mortuary may be allowed as an accessory use to a cemetery when
      located within a fire district and/or when fire flow is available.
8-4-30:      Group Foster Home
   A. Generally. The proposed use shall be properly located and designed to protect the health,
      safety, and welfare of the client.
   B. Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as per Section 8-3-10, in addition to the
      required off-street parking for the dwelling.
   C. Occupancy. If the proposed group foster home results in more than ten (10) persons
      occupying a dwelling at any one time, a concurrent application shall be submitted for a
      change of occupancy as required by the Ada County Building Code as set forth in Title 7,
      Chapter 2 of this code.
   D. Outdoor Play
          1. A minimum outdoor play area of one hundred (100) square feet per client is required.
             The Director may waive the minimum recreation area requirement if there is a park that
             abuts the property that can be used by the clients.
          2. All outdoor play areas shall be completely enclosed by minimum six-foot (6') barriers
             to secure against exit/entry by small children and to screen abutting properties. The
             fencing material shall meet the swimming pool barrier requirements of the Ada County
             Building Code as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
          3. Outdoor recreation equipment over six feet (6') high shall not be located in a front yard
             or within any required yard.
8-4-31:      Heavy Equipment Sales or Service
   A. Enclosure


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 142
          1. All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and lifts) shall occur within
             an enclosed structure.
          2. Inoperable or dismantled equipment shall be stored behind a sight obscuring fence,
             wall, or screen or within an enclosed structure, and shall not be visible from any street
             or private road.
   B. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage of accessories, replacement parts, or discarded
      parts shall comply with the Outdoor Storage Area specific use standards in this Chapter.
8-4-32:      Heavy Truck Wash Facility
   A. The use shall be conducted pursuant to State of Idaho Code, Title 22, Chapter 1 “Rules
      Governing Commercial Livestock Truck Washing Facilities (CLTWF).” The facility will
      be operated under the auspices of a valid CLTWF permit issued by the Director of the
      Idaho State Department of Agriculture. Written approval from the Idaho State Department
      of Agriculture along with the associated application materials must be provided at the time
      of application.
   B. All structures or outdoor storage areas shall be located a minimum of one hundred feet
      (100’) from any property line abutting other property. All structures and outdoor storage
      areas shall be depicted on the master site plan. In addition, the use shall be located a
      minimum of one thousand feet (1,000’) from any hospital.
   C. Zoning Inspection. For the duration of the approval, the use shall be subject to zoning
      inspection upon advanced notice and request by the Ada County Development Services
      Department. If a permit holder refuses to allow inspection of the premises by the
      Development Services Department, the approved zoning certificate or conditional use
      permit may be revoked.
   D. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use standards
      in this Chapter.
   E. Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but outside the truck washing
      facility entrance. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the
      public right of way by patrons. Such stacking lanes shall be separate from areas required
      for access and parking. The stacking lanes shall not be located within one hundred feet
      (100’) from another property line.
   F. If wastewater is being treated or being land applied, it shall comply with standards required
      by the Department of Environmental Quality.
   G. A Nutrient Management Plan (NMP) conforming to a nutrient management standard is
      required.
   H. The application shall include a Sediment and Mud Track Out Prevention Plan explaining
      how the project will prevent mud, silt, and other debris from being tracked out on the
      roadway.
8-4-33:      Home Occupation
   A. Applicability
          1. This Section applies to home occupations.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 143
     2. This Section does not apply to no-impact home occupations, which do not require
        review under this Title. For purposes of this Subsection, a "no-impact home
        occupation” means a home occupation that:
        a. Is conducted entirely inside the dwelling unit;
        b. Does not involve external modifications to the dwelling unit, and has no outside
           appearance of a business (such as parking, lighting, or signs);
        c. Employs only persons who reside in the principal dwelling unit;
        d. Does not display retail goods or stockpile inventory or equipment;
        e. Uses no equipment or process that creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or
           electrical or electronic interference detectable at the property line;
        f. Does not generate solid waste or sewage discharge beyond those normally
           associated with a single-family dwelling unit; and
        g. Does not involve use, storage, or disposal of any grouping or classification of
           materials that the United States Secretary of Transportation, the State, or the County
           designates as a hazardous material.
  B. Standards for All Home Occupations
     1. The home occupation shall not cause the property to differ from its rural or residential
        character in appearance, or in the emission of noise, dust, fumes, odors, vibrations, or
        electrical interference. Storage or use of hazardous materials, odor causing materials,
        or other materials that may cause a nuisance or health or safety problems is prohibited.
     2. No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the total floor area (both habitable and non-
        habitable space) of the principal permitted dwelling or one thousand feet (1,000’)
        (whichever is less) shall be devoted to the home occupation or for storing goods or
        vehicles associated with the home occupation. Home occupations may be located in
        either the principal permitted dwelling or accessory structures.
     3. The structure in which the home occupation is located must have a valid building
        permit and/or zoning approval. The home occupation and associated storage shall not
        occupy any space required for off street parking for the principal permitted dwelling.
     4. No outdoor storage or outdoor loading shall be allowed, except that one work trailer,
        work vehicle or commercial vehicle may park on the property.
     5. No home occupation shall discharge any hazardous material into any sewer,
        drainageway or the ground.
     6. The following occupations are prohibited as home occupations: service, repair, or
        painting of any vehicle; commercial kennel; adult entertainment establishment;
        commercial composting; contractor’s yard or shop; sale, repackaging or use of
        hazardous materials; or any use not consistent with the applicable base district purpose
        statement.
     7. Day care is not a home occupation. Day care is regulated by specific use standards
        found in this Chapter.
     8. All signs shall comply with Section 8-3-12.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 144
     9. No processing of soil or rock shall be allowed.
     10. Home occupations shall comply with all applicable State and Federal Regulations.
     11. In addition to the requirements set forth on the applicable application forms of the
         department, home occupation applications shall include the following:
        a. A site plan drawn to scale, depicting the total square footage and location of all
           existing and proposed structures located within the property boundaries of the
           subject property.
        b. A graphical depiction, such as a floor plan, showing the separation of home
           occupation space from residential and/or accessory use space.
        c. A detailed letter indicating:
            1. The square footage of the proposed area of the home occupation;
            2. The number of employees who do not live on site;
            3. If retail sales are planned;
            4. The hours and days of operation;
            5. If group instruction is planned, the number of students at any one time;
            6. The number of off-street parking spaces;
            7. The number of commercial vehicles;
            8. The frequency of pick ups, deliveries, and visits by patrons; and
            9. Any other information relative to the description of the proposed home
               occupation.
  C. Standards for Small Home Occupations
     1. A zoning certificate is required. The resident owner of the home occupation shall
        continuously comply with the restrictions in this Section and the specific use standards
        found in this Chapter.
     2. A building permit may be required for the change in use or occupancy of any portion
        of the principal permitted dwelling, greenhouse, garage, or accessory structure used for
        the home occupation.
     3. The home occupation shall be conducted solely by the residents of the principal
        permitted dwelling. No employees are allowed.
     4. No client, customer, and/or student visits shall be allowed.
     5. The home occupation shall not receive more than two (2) pick-ups or deliveries per
        day.
  D. Standards for Large Home Occupations
     1. Administrative approval is required. The owner of the home occupation shall
        continuously comply with the restrictions in this Section and the specific use standards
        found in this Chapter.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 145
          2. A building permit may be required for the change in use or occupancy of any portion
             of the principal permitted dwelling, greenhouse, garage, or accessory structure used for
             the home occupation.
          3. The home occupation shall be conducted by the inhabitants of the principal permitted
             dwelling, and no more than one nonresident employee shall be permitted to work on
             site.
          4. All visits by the nonresident employee, clients and customers, and deliveries, shall
             occur between the hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and six o’clock (6:00) P.M.,
             Monday through Friday, and between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. and six
             o’clock (6:00) P.M. on Saturday and Sunday.
          5. Group instruction shall be limited to no more than five (5) students at one time with a
             maximum of two (2) classes per day.
          6. The use of an outdoor swimming pool for swimming instruction shall be provided with
             a barrier which meets the requirements of the Ada County Building Code as set forth
             in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
          7. One paved, off-street parking space shall be provided for the nonresident employee,
             plus up to three (3) parking spaces for clients, if applicable, and shall be improved as
             per Section 8-3-10, in addition to the required off street parking for the dwelling. No
             overnight parking of client or employee vehicles shall be allowed on site. On-site
             parking may be reduced by the number of off-street parking spaces in the driveway and
             by on-street parallel parking spaces in front of the single-family detached dwelling, if
             applicable.
          8. The property shall have no more than twenty (20) additional vehicular trips per day of
             home occupation traffic.
          9. Large home occupations, involving on-site visits by clients, customers, and/or students
             shall not be allowed on private roads unless one of the following can be demonstrated:
             a. The private road does not provide access or frontage to any other property; or
             b. An existing or updated recorded maintenance/easement agreement addresses and
                permits nonresidential use of the private road.
8-4-34:      Hotel or Motel
   A. Separation. No structure or driveway shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of a
      property line abutting a residential district or use.
   B. Accessory Uses. Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, restaurants, retail
      shops, food or beverage service, and personal service shops, may be allowed if such
      facilities are completely within the hotel or motel structure. A bar or nightclub shall require
      separate or concurrent approval subject to the regulations of this Title.
   C. Outdoor Recreation Areas
          1. No outdoor recreation area associated with the hotel or motel shall be within one
             hundred feet (100') of a residential district or use.
          2. If an outdoor swimming pool is proposed on site, the pool shall be enclosed with a six-


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 146
             foot (6') barrier that meets the requirements of the Ada County Building Code as set
             forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
8-4-35:      Junkyard or Automobile Wrecking Yard
   A. Screening
          1. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the Outdoor Storage Area specific use
             standards in this Chapter. Fences, walls, or screening materials shall be at least ten feet
             (10') tall.
          2. No portion of the junkyard or automobile wrecking yard outdoor storage areas and/or
             outdoor activity areas may be visible from any "highway," "interstate," "principal
             arterial," or "minor arterial" as herein defined.
          3. All materials or parts shall be stored and located within the fenced or walled area. No
             vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed the height of the fence or wall.
   B. Site Related Standards
          1. All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located at least three hundred feet (300’)
             from any property line. The use shall be located at least one thousand feet (1,000’) from
             any residential district or use.
          2. The master site plan shall designate an area for processing vehicles as they are brought
             to the site. The processing area shall be an impermeable surface that has a means to
             collect and properly dispose of oils and fluids in the vehicles.
          3. All necessary permits for the storage of materials on the site, including, but not limited
             to, oil, hazardous waste, and tires shall be obtained.
          4. No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a junkyard or automobile wrecking yard,
             any portion of which is within one thousand feet (1,000') of the nearest edge of the right
             of way and visible from any "highway," "interstate," "principal arterial," or "minor
             arterial" as herein defined. See Idaho Code Section 40-313.
          5. The application shall include review comments from the Boise regional office of the
             Idaho Department of Environmental Quality with the conditional use permit
             application.
8-4-36:      Kennel, Commercial
   A. Generally. The owner and/or operator shall comply with all County and state regulations
      relative to the operation of the commercial kennel.
   B. Outside Runs
          1. Separation. A three-hundred-foot (300') separation shall be maintained between the
             area and structures where animals are housed and any property line.
          2. Operational Standards
             a. Outside runs for commercial kennels shall be operated only with an attendant
                present on the premises twenty-four (24) hours a day.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 147
          3. Fences
             a. Adequate fencing shall be provided to restrain animals from running at large.
             b. At a minimum, the animals shall be enclosed within a six-foot (6') fence or wall.
             c. Electronic fences shall not be used as the sole method of restraining animals.
             d. In residential districts, visual screening is required to buffer adjacent land uses. (See
                also Section 8-3-7).
          4. Accessory Uses
             a. Five percent (5%) of the building floor area, excluding the kennel area, may be used
                for related retail sales.
                    b. A grooming facility is allowed, but not to occupy more than thirty-five
                       percent (35%) of the building floor area, excluding the kennel area.
8-4-37:      Kennel, Hobby
   A. Generally
          1. A maximum of ten (10) dogs shall be allowed as a hobby kennel.
          2. For the purposes of this Section, a litter of puppies together with the mother, shall count
             as one dog until the litter reaches six (6) months of age. Each puppy over six (6) months
             of age shall be counted as one dog.
   B. Licensing. The owner shall maintain a valid Ada County dog license for each dog as
      required by Section 5-7-5 of the Ada County Code. The owner shall comply with Section
      5-7-6 of the Ada County Code regarding limitations on dogs. The owner shall comply with
      Section 5-7-7 of the Ada County Code regarding kennel licenses.
   C. Operational Standard
          1. Facilities in which dogs are housed and the designated location for feeding and
             watering shall be in the rear yard and at least fifty feet (50') from any property line.
          2. In residential districts and properties under two and a half acres (2.5) in the rural base
             districts, all dogs shall be housed indoors during the night.
          3. The dogs shall be physically restrained from running at large. In residential districts,
             visual screening shall be required to buffer adjacent land uses.
          4. No commercial dog boarding shall be allowed.
8-4-38:      Livestock Confinement Facility
          1. Facilities less than three hundred (300) animal units. A new livestock confinement
             facility or expansion of an existing facility that has three hundred (300) animal units or
             fewer shall not require Master Site Plan approval.
          2. Facilities more than three hundred (300) animal units but less than one thousand (1,000)
             animal units. A new livestock confinement facility or expansion of an existing facility
             that will have more than three hundred (300) animal units shall be deemed an animal


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 148
         feeding operation (AFO) and shall require Master Site Plan approval.
     3. Facilities more than one thousand (1,000) animal units. A new AFO or expansion of an
        existing AFO that will have more than one thousand (1,000) animal units shall require
        conditional use approval.
     4. Aquaculture AFOs are exempt from the regulations in this Section, except for manure
        storage setback.
  B. Location. Livestock confinement facilities shall be located within an RP, RR, RUT, RSW,
     R1, R2, R4, R6, or R8 Base District.
  C. Standards for AFOs. In addition to the requirements of subsection 8-4-38B, the following
     standards shall apply:
     1. Compliance. The AFO must comply with and not be in violation of any Federal, State,
        or local law including, but not limited to, all applicable State of Idaho Department of
        Agriculture, State of Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, State of Idaho
        Department of Water Resources, and/or Central District Health Department regulations
        and specifications.
     2. Lighting. All proposed lighting shall comply with the provisions of Section 8-3-8.
     3. Siting Standards. For expansions of existing facilities that require Master Site Plan or
        conditional use approval, the location standards shall only apply to proposed
        expansions.
         a. Lagoons and manure storage shall not be located within a Flood Hazard Overlay
            District.
         b. All lagoons and manure storage areas shall maintain a minimum separation distance
            as set forth in Table 8-4-38-1 below.
         c. Silage, haylage, potatoes, or any feed product resulting from the ensilage process
            shall be stored no closer than three hundred feet (300') from any property line.
         d. Each existing facility with three hundred (300) or more animal units and each
            proposed AFO shall have a one-mile radius sphere of influence from the lagoons
            and/or manure storage areas. The sphere of influence of a proposed AFO may
            overlap the sphere of another AFO if no existing development is within more than
            two (2) AFO spheres of influence.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 149
  Table 8-4-38-1 AFO Setbacks

                                             Use                                               Setback
                                                                                               (In Feet)
   Another AFO lagoon or manure storage area where existing development is within
   either AFO sphere of influence                                                                2,500
   Another AFO lagoon or manure storage area where there is no existing development
   within either AFO sphere of influence                                                         1,250
   Existing development outside an area of city impact                                           1,000
   Existing development inside an area of city impact                                            2,500

   Public water intakes1                                                                          300

   Domestic well2                                                                                 300
   Streets and roadways                                                                           200
   Property lines not fronting a street or roadway                                                300

  Notes:
             1.   Public water intakes shall include, but not be limited to, wells, springs, lakes, and/or
                  streams used as a potable water source.
             2.   This does not include any domestic well of the AFO owner and/or
                  operator.

8-4-39:      Manufacturing, Heavy
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any heavy manufacture or processing for
      manufacture.
   B. Standards
          1. All structures shall be located a minimum of three-hundred-feet (300’) from any
             property line. The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000’) from
             any residential district or approved medical care facility property.
          2. All hazardous chemicals or gases shall be stored and/or used within an enclosed
             structure.
             a. The facility shall be enclosed by a minimum eight-foot (8’) high security fence or
                wall. Entrance and exit shall be through a gate that shall be locked during
                nonbusiness hours (see Section 8-3-6).
          3. The application materials shall include written documentation from the appropriate fire
             authority approving the proposed location and plan specifications of the facilities.
          4. The application materials shall include maps and engineering drawings showing
             proposed drainage, proposed sewer system design, the depth of the water table, soil
             composition, all existing surface water, and all existing uses within one-fourth (1/4)
             mile of the property.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 150
          5. Evidence shall be provided that in the event there are dangerous characteristics of the
             particular process or activity in question have been, or shall be, eliminated or
             minimized sufficiently so as not to create a public nuisance or be detrimental to the
             public health, safety, or welfare.
          6. The use shall comply with the flood hazard overlay district as set forth in this Title.
   C. Nuisance
          1. The following adverse effects shall be mitigated through setbacks, buffers, sound
             attenuation and/or hours of operation:
             a. Noise, odor, or vibrations; or direct or reflected glare detectable by the human
                senses without the aid of instruments.
             b. Any other emission or radiation that endangers human health, results in damages to
                vegetation or property, or which exceed health and safety standards.
          2. The application materials shall include a written statement that the proposed facility
             meets any applicable federal, state, or local standards regarding such use.
8-4-40:      Manufacturing, Light
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any light manufacture or processing for
      manufacture.
   B. Standards
          1. All mechanical equipment emissions; shipping and/or delivery; or other outdoor
             activity areas shall be located a minimum of three-hundred-feet (300’) from any
             abutting residential districts or medical care facility property.
          2. The application shall identify how the proposed use will address the impacts of noise
             and other emissions on adjoining residential districts. More specifically, the following
             adverse effects shall be mitigated through setbacks, buffers, sound attenuation and/or
             hours of operation:
             a. Noise, odor, or vibrations, or direct or reflected glare detectable by the human
                senses without the aid of instruments.
             b. Radioactivity and electric or electromagnetic disturbances that unduly interfere
                with the normal operation of equipment, instruments, or appliances on abutting
                properties.
             c. Any other emission or radiation that endangers human health, results in damages to
                vegetation or property or which exceeds health and safety standards.
8-4-41:      Manufactured Home Park
   A. Definitions: For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:
          COMMON PLAY AREA: Shall refer to the play area required in subsection 8-4-41G.3 of
          this Section. The term common play area shall not refer to the outdoor living area required
          in subsection 8-4-41E.4 of this Section.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 151
     DRIVE: A privately owned roadway that provides internal circulation for vehicles within
     the manufactured home park and/or access to manufactured home spaces within the
     manufactured home park.
     MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE: Shall refer to the area that is for lease or rent as a
     site to place a manufactured home, including the required outdoor living area. The
     manufactured home space shall be delineated on an approved master site plan for a
     manufactured home park.
     SERVICE AREA: Shall refer to areas necessary for the management of the manufactured
     home park. Such areas may include but shall not be limited to: storage and collection areas
     for trash and garbage, loading and unloading areas other than passenger vehicles, and
     outdoor storage areas.
  B. Density. The maximum density of a manufactured home park shall not exceed the
     maximum density of the corresponding base district.
  C. Use Standards
     1. Accessory uses shall be in conformance with the accessory uses of the corresponding
        base district.
     2. A single-family detached dwelling or a manufactured home may be allowed for the
        sole use of a caretaker.
     3. A recreational center and clubhouse may be allowed for the use of park residents.
     4. Manufactured home parks shall accommodate only manufactured homes, not vacation
        trailers or other recreational vehicles except when stored within a designated storage
        area. Not more than one manufactured home shall be parked at one time in a
        manufactured home space.
  D. Manufactured Home Space Design Standards
     1. No manufactured home space shall contain less than two thousand (2,000) square feet.
        The gross average areas of all spaces in the park shall not be less than three thousand
        (3,000) square feet. No drives, common play area, or service area shall be considered
        as providing any part of the required manufactured home space.
     2. No manufactured home space shall be less than thirty feet (30') in width and/or depth.
     3. The boundaries of each manufactured home space shall have an approved fence, wall,
        planting, or other permanent marker defining the perimeter of the space.
     4. An outdoor living area shall be provided in each manufactured home space. Such
        outdoor living area shall be a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the individual space,
        but in no case shall such area be less than three hundred (300) square feet nor required
        to be more than five hundred (500) square feet. The minimum dimension of such area
        shall not be less than fifteen feet (15').
  E. Drives. Drives shall comply with the following standards and are subject to plan review,
     field inspection, and approval by the County Engineer:
     1. The following construction standards apply to all drives in manufactured home parks:
         a. A minimum of one drive shall originate at a public street and terminate at a public

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 152
            street. This standard is not intended to require two (2) access points to the
            manufactured home park.
        b. Drives shall have rolled concrete curb and gutter sections along both sides of the
           drive and extending the length of the drive.
        c. Drives shall be at least thirty feet (30') wide from back of curb to back of curb. The
           entire width of the drive shall be improved.
        d. Drives shall have a crown or transverse slope a minimum of two percent (2%) to
           drain water away from the travel way and water shall be disposed of in a manner
           that protects life and property.
        e. The improved surface shall include two and a half inches (2.5”) of asphalt plant
           mix paving on top of the base course of six inches (6") of three-fourths inch (3/4")
           minus crushed gravel or other materials approved by the County Engineer over a
           stable compacted subbase. As an alternative to asphalt plant mix, concrete shall be
           allowed with the approval of the County Engineer.
        f. Bridge and culvert crossings shall be designed for a minimum H-93 loading.
        g. The maximum allowable grade shall be ten percent (10%) slope.
        h. The minimum center line curve radius shall be fifty feet (50').
        i. The minimum curb radius at intersections shall be twenty feet (20').
     2. The County Engineer may approve, or recommend approval of, alternative drive
        designs when the overall design, as proposed and stamped by a professional engineer
        licensed in the state of Idaho, meets, or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this
        Section and shall not be detrimental to public health, safety, and welfare.
     3. Sidewalks shall be constructed along one side of the drive and constructed to the
        standards for local streets in the most current edition of the development policy manual
        as adopted by the Ada County Highway District.
  F. Park Design Standards
     1. Two (2) off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each manufactured home space.
        All off-street parking shall be improved to the same standards as drives as noted in
        subsection 8-4-41F of this Section. Parking areas for accessory uses shall be paved in
        a like manner. For the purposes of this Section, off-street parking spaces shall mean
        off-drive parking spaces.
     2. Outdoor lighting shall be provided to illuminate drives and sidewalks.
     3. Manufactured home parks that accommodate children less than fourteen (14) years of
        age shall provide a common play area restricted to that use. Parks that qualify as
        housing for older persons subject to the federal Fair Housing Act are exempt from this
        regulation.
        a. At least one hundred (100) square feet of common play area shall be provided per
           manufactured home space; provided, however, that no such common play area,
           regardless of the number of manufactured home spaces, shall be less than two
           thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 153
        b. The common play area shall be protected from all streets, drives, driveways, and
           parking areas by a minimum thirty-six-inch (36”) barrier. The fencing material shall
           meet the swimming pool barrier requirements of the Ada County Building Code as
           set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
     4. All manufactured home parks shall comply with the ADA accessibility guidelines.
     5. Manufactured home parks shall provide at least a twenty-foot (20’) side and rear yard.
        a. Where the neighboring property is in a residential base district, such yard may be
           used for open space but shall not contain carports, storage structures, or any other
           structures.
        b. Where the neighboring property is in a rural, commercial, or industrial base district
           such yard may be used for open space, group or individual parking, recreational
           facilities, carports, or storage structures.
  G. Screening. The following standards are in addition to the landscaping and screening
     standards in Section 8-3-7.
     1. Along the perimeter of the manufactured home park, fences, walls, and/or vegetative
        screening shall be provided to screen off-street parking areas with more than five (5)
        spaces and service areas.
     2. Fences, walls, and/or vegetative screening along the perimeter of the manufactured
        home park shall be provided to protect park residents from, lighting, noise, or other off-
        site influences, or to protect occupants of neighboring residential districts from
        potential adverse influences within the manufactured home park including, but not
        limited to, lighting, and/or noise.
     3. Off-street parking areas with five (5) or more parking spaces and service areas shall be
        screened from view of park residents.
  H. Manufactured Home Placement Standards
     1. Carports, cabanas, awnings, and all other structures, whether herein defined or not, that
        are attached to the manufactured home shall be considered as a portion of the
        manufactured home. Such additions and structures shall conform to the requirements
        of the Ada County Building Code as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
     2. Trailer hitches shall not project beyond the manufactured home space.
     3. The minimum distance between a manufactured home (exclusive of trailer hitches) and:
        a. Any other manufactured home shall be ten feet (10').
        b. Any structure shall be ten feet (10').
        c. Any property line (excluding manufactured home space boundaries) shall be equal
           to or greater than the required setback for the base district.
        d. Any public street shall be equal to the required setback for the base district.
        e. Any common drive or walkway shall be five feet (5').
     4. No more than sixty percent (60%) of a manufactured home space may be occupied by
        a manufactured home and any other accessory structures.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 154
8-4-42:     Manufactured Home Storage
   A. Setbacks. Manufactured homes shall not be stored within required yards.
   B. Use Standards
          1. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the regulations for Outdoor Storage Area
             requirements in this Chapter.
          2. The site shall not be used as a "junkyard" or "automobile wrecking yard" as herein
             defined.
8-4-43:      Meatpacking/ Slaughterhouse Facility
   A. Setbacks. All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located at least three hundred
      feet (300') from any property line.
   B. Separation. The use shall be located at least one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential
      district, residential use, or medical care facility.
   C. Waste. The owner shall obtain written approval of the state of Idaho Department of Health
      and Welfare for elimination of waste materials.
   D. Compliance. The application materials shall include written documentation that the
      proposed facility meets any applicable federal, state, or local standards regarding such use
      including, but not limited to, those of the Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S.
      Department of Agriculture, Central District Health Department, and Idaho Department of
      Water Resources.
8-4-44:      Medical Care Facility
   A. Frontage. The use shall have frontage on an arterial street.
   B. Accessory Uses. Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops, food or
      beverage service, and personal service shops, may be allowed if designed to serve patrons
      of the medical care facility and their visitors only.
   C. Separation. No medical care facility shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
      the following uses:
          1. Explosive Manufacturing or Storage;
          2. Livestock Confinement Facility with Three Hundred One (301) or More Animal Units;
          3. Flammable Substance Storage;
          4. Foundry;
          5. Freight and Truck Terminal;
          6. Manufacture or Processing of Hazardous Chemicals;
          7. Centralized Power Facility;
          8. Processing Plant for Agricultural and Dairy Products;
          9. Slaughterhouse;
          10. Soil or Water Remediation; or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 155
          11. Tannery.
8-4-45:      Multi-Family Dwelling
   A. Frontage. The minimum roadway frontage shall be fifty feet (50') for multi- family
      developments in the R12 and R20 districts.
   B. Open Space
          1. The minimum dedicated open space requirement shall be thirty percent (30%) for
             multi-family developments.
          2. Dedicated open space shall abut multi-family development within a planned unit
             development.
   C. Multi-family site development shall comply with the design standards specified in Section
      8-6-19G (Master Site Plan standards).
8-4-46:      Nursery, Wholesale or Retail
   A. Mechanical Equipment. Outdoor mechanical equipment (including, but not limited to,
      heaters and fans) shall not be located within fifty feet (50') of a property line. To reduce
      noise, permanently mounted mechanical equipment shall be enclosed to the maximum
      extent possible.
   B. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage for materials shall comply with the Outdoor
      Storage Area requirements of this Chapter. The following nursery materials shall be
      exempt from this requirement:
          1. Growing plants in ground or in containers; and
          2. Wood chips, bark, rock, gravel, or similar ground cover material where such storage
             piles do not exceed six feet (6') tall.
   C. Fertilizer. The application of fertilizer or processed wastewater at agronomic rates shall
      be deemed a component of the nursery use.
   D. Additional Standards. Additional standards for wholesale and/or retail nursery within a
      residential district or adjoining a residential district:
          1. Any storage area for material in the process of being converted into compost shall be
             located at least one hundred feet (100') from any property line.
          2. No aerial spraying of the property shall be allowed.
   E. Retail nurseries in the RUT (rural-urban transition) district shall also comply with the
      following:
          1. The total amount of enclosed retail space shall not exceed five thousand (5,000) square
             feet. Greenhouses (as defined by this Title) shall not be considered retail space.
          2. The property shall have frontage to an arterial street.
8-4-47:      Office, Accessory
   A. Where Permitted. An accessory office is allowed for an approved use.
   B. Area


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 156
          1. The office shall not occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the gross floor area
             of the approved use.
          2. If the approved primary use is not located in a structure, the office structure shall not
             occupy more than five percent (5%) of the property area on which the primary use is
             located or five thousand (5,000) square feet, whichever is less.
8-4-48:      Office, Temporary Construction
   A. Any offices or accessory structures shall be removed from the property within thirty (30)
      days of completion of the construction project.
8-4-49:      Outdoor Storage Area, Accessory
   A. Screening. Outdoor storage areas shall be screened according to Section 8-3-7E.4.
          1. Cyclone or chain-link fencing (with or without slats) shall not be deemed a screening
             material.
          2. The landscaping plan shall incorporate vegetative materials along the length of the
             screening to soften the appearance of such features.
   B. Prohibited Locations. Materials shall not be stored within required yards. Stored items
      shall not block sidewalks or parking areas and may not impede vehicular or pedestrian
      traffic.
   C. Use of Site. The site shall not be used as a "pit, mine, or quarry," "contractor's yard,"
      junkyard," "automobile wrecking yard", or “vehicle impound yard.”
   D. Additional Standards:
      1.     The location of the outdoor storage area shall be noted on the master site plan and
             reviewed as part of that application.
      2.     Storage areas shall not be rented, leased, let, or otherwise used as a commercial
             business.
      3.     Outdoor storage for commercial or industrial uses shall be limited to those items owned
             or used by the business.
      4.     Outdoor storage for a multi-family development, recreational vehicle park, or
             manufactured home park, shall be only for recreational vehicles or personal recreation
             items of the tenants.
8-4-50:      Personal Services
   A. Hours of Operation: If abutting a residential district, the hours of operation shall be seven
      o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
8-4-51:     Pit, Mine, or Quarry
   A. Applicability
          1. A pit, mine, or quarry that meets the standards of subsection C of this Section is
             reviewed as a temporary use. Any other pit, mine, or quarry is reviewed as a conditional
             use.
   B. General Use Standards


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 157
     1. All operations shall be subject to accepted safety conditions for the type of excavation
        being performed.
     2. Asphalt mixing and concrete batching may only be allowed as accessory uses to a pit,
        mine, or quarry in an industrial or rural district. See standards in Section 8-4-6.
     3. Extraction, movement, or stockpiling are prohibited within required yards. The tops
        and toes of cut and fill slopes shall remain outside the required yards.
     4. Areas where equipment is stored shall be deemed outdoor storage areas and shall
        comply with the outdoor storage requirements in this Chapter. Such storage areas shall
        be constructed and maintained to prevent chemicals from discharging into surface or
        ground waters. Such chemicals shall include, but not be limited to, petroleum products,
        antifreeze, and lubricants.
     5. The extraction area shall be watered daily to reduce dust impacts to surrounding
        properties. Haul roads shall have a durable and dust free surface and shall be graded to
        drain all surface water from the haul roads.
     6. For any pit, mine, or quarry all property owners within one thousand feet (1,000') of
        any property boundary of the proposed site and any additional area that may be
        substantially impacted by the use shall be notified.
     7. In accord with Title 5, Chapter 2 of this code, the storage and/or disposal of solid waste
        on the proposed site is prohibited.
     8. Upon reclamation of the final phase, all temporary structures shall be removed from
        the property, except for property line fences or walls. Any contaminated soils shall be
        properly recycled or disposed.
  C. General Design and Reclamation Standards
     1. Documentation (from the appropriate agency) shall be provided that the proposed pit,
        mine, or quarry operation and reclamation plan comply with federal and state
        regulations in regard to air and water quality and site reclamation.
     2. For a pit, mine, or quarry where the excavation area results in a pond, the following
        standards shall apply:
          a. The extraction areas shall be designed to create a meandering edge.
          b. Written documentation shall be provided from Idaho Fish and Game that the
             proposed pond is designed to create viable fish and/or wildlife habitat.
          c. Documentation shall be provided from the Central District Health Department that
             the proposed pond shall not cause septic leach fields on abutting properties to fail.
          d. For the purposes of this Section, a "pond" means any pit, mine, or quarry where the
             rehabilitation plan results in an area that contains water to within six feet (6') of the
             surface year-round.
     3.      Any riparian vegetation disturbed as part of the operation shall be replaced at a ratio
             of two to one (2:1). Replacement vegetation shall be native plant materials and shall
             meet the requirements of Table 8-3-7-2 (Minimum Plant Size Standards) of this
             Title.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 158
          4. All pit, mines, or quarries shall comply with all requirements of "Best Management
             Practices for Mining in Idaho," published by the Idaho Department of Lands.
   D. Standards for Temporary Use Approval
          1. The property has not received previous approval for a pit, mine, or quarry as a
             temporary use.
          2. The maximum area of the extraction site shall be six (6) acres.
          3. The proposed extraction activities shall be completed within five (5) years.
          4. The pit, mine, or quarry shall meet the standards in subsections A and B of this Section.
          5. Stockpiles shall be a maximum of fifteen feet (15') tall.
          6. All extraction and hauling activities shall take place between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
             and dusk or six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (whichever is earlier) Monday through Friday.
          7. Haul roads shall not pass through existing residential neighborhoods. For the purpose
             of this subsection D, the term "residential neighborhood" means any residential
             subdivision development at a density of one or more units per acre. This standard does
             not apply to a pit, mine, or quarry that is located in R1, R2, R4, R6, R8, R12, or R20
             base district.
          8. Additional standards for a pit, mine, or quarry located in an R1, R2, R4, R6, R8, R12,
             or R20 base district:
             a. The maximum extraction area shall be limited to the equivalent of the maximum
                allowed coverage.
             b. Stockpiles shall be a maximum of six feet (6') tall.
             c. No rock crushing shall be done on site.
             d. The proposed extraction activities shall be completed within one (1) year.
   E. Standards for Conditional Use Approval
          1. The pit, mine, or quarry shall meet the standards in subsections A and B of this Section.
          2. The approved site plan shall include adequate parking and loading areas to
             accommodate the peak number of vehicles. Such areas are not allowed within required
             yards.
          3. Rock crushing may be allowed as an accessory use.
          4. The extraction and reclamation phasing plan shall be shown on the master site plan.
          5. The reclamation plan for each phase shall be implemented as soon as the subject area
             is depleted of resources or when the allowed time has ended (whichever occurs first).
          6. The conditional use approval shall consider and/or establish a time frame for the
             extraction of material. For any proposal where an extraction period greater than five
             (5) years is requested, the Commission shall review the status of the pit, mine, or quarry
             after two and a half (2.5) years and consider amendments or additions to the approval.
8-4-52:      Portable Classroom


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 159
   A. Portable classrooms that are not indicated on an approved conditional use require
      administrative approval. A proposed use that cannot meet all of the following specific use
      standards requires conditional use approval:
          1. The portable classroom shall not be located in the front yard of the principal school
             structure.
          2. The portable classroom shall not be located in any required yard.
          3. The placement of the portable classroom shall not reduce the number of required off-
             street parking spaces.
8-4-53:      Postal Service
   A. Location. No structure, facility, drive lane, parking area, nor loading area shall be located
      within twenty feet (20') of a residential district unless a six-foot (6') sound reduction wall
      is provided.
   B. Hours of Operation. If abutting a residential district, the facility hours of public operation
      shall be limited to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
          1. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use
             standards in this Chapter.
8-4-54:      Power Facilities
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any power facility listed under the Infrastructure-
      Utilities category in Table 8-2-23-2 (Use Table).
   B. General Standards
          1. Electric Distribution Line
             a. Electric distribution line shall be a principal permitted use. Master site plan
                approval shall not be required.
             b. Electric distribution line rights of way are exempt from Section 8-3-7 (Landscaping
                and Screening).
             c. Electric distribution line shall comply with subsection 8-3-2O (transmission line
                corridors).
          2. Electric Subtransmission Line
             a. Electric subtransmission line shall be a principal permitted use. Master site plan
                approval shall be required. A parking plan is not required with the master site plan
                application unless a parking area is proposed with the subtransmission line.
             b. Electric subtransmission line rights of way are exempt from Section 8-3-7
                (Landscaping and Screening).
             c. Electric subtransmission line shall comply with subsection 8-3-2O (transmission
                line corridors).
          3. Electric Transmission Line and Substation
             a. Electric transmission line and substations require conditional use approval. Master
                site plan approval shall be required.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 160
        b. All electric transmission line rights of way are exempt from Section 8-3-7
           (Landscaping and Screening).
        c. Electric substations and other utility structures are considered outdoor storage areas
           and shall meet the standards in Section 8-4-49.
        d. Towers for the purpose of communicating from the substation to remote devices
           shall be deemed an accessory use to an approved substation, provided that the pole
           and antenna are no taller than the existing towers.
        e. Electric transmission line and substations shall comply with subsection 8-3-2O
           (transmission line corridors).
        f. Transmission lines shall comply with the Avian Power Line Interaction
           Committee’s (APLIC) guidelines.
     4. Centralized or Distributed Power Facilities
        a. Centralized or Distributed Power Facilities require conditional use and master site
           plan approval.
        b. No power facility shall be used for displaying any advertising except for reasonable
           identification of the manufacturer or operator.
        c. The power facility shall comply with subsection 8-3-5C.
        d. The power facility shall comply with all local, state, and Federal Regulations.
        e. Installation of an anemometer or similar devices shall be reviewed as a temporary
           use.
  C. Specific Standards Applicable to Centralized Power Facilities
     1. Standards Applicable to All Centralized Power Facilities
        a. The minimum property size shall be forty (40) acres.
        b. The centralized power facility shall not be located within an area of city impact.
        c. Approval may be required from the appropriate agency, including, but not limited
           to, the following: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Federal Aviation
           Administration, National Guard, Mountain Home military base, Idaho Bureau of
           Aeronautics, Boise Airport Director, IPUC, Idaho Power Company compliance,
           Idaho Fish and Game, U.S. Department of Fish and Wildlife, Idaho Department of
           Water Resources, Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, Ada County
           Emergency Communications Division, Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security Public
           Safety Communications, and the appropriate fire authority as a condition of
           approval.
        d. The master site plan for the proposed centralized power facility shall include a map
           of the proposed transmission line corridors and any proposed or existing
           substations, if any.
     2. Additional Standards for Certain Centralized Power Facilities
        a. Biomass Facility



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 161
           1. The minimum property size shall be ten (10) acres.
           2. The application shall identify the specific location and type of all fuel sources
              for the biomass facility, and the method of gathering and delivering the fuel to
              the site.
           3. Mass burn facilities shall not use waste containing hazardous materials as a fuel
              source.
        b. Hydroelectric Facility
           1. Major earthwork associated with construction and maintenance shall be
              scheduled to minimize soil disturbance between December 1 and April 15.
           2. Any removal of riparian vegetation along watercourses shall be replaced at a
              ratio of two to one (2:1).
           3. A master site plan approval is not required for a hydroelectric facility, relating
              to a seasonal irrigation canal.
        c. Solar Facility
           1. The minimum property size shall be ten (10) acres.
           2. Solar facilities shall not be located on irrigated prime farmland.
           3. Solar equipment shall meet the required setbacks for the district in which it is
              located.
           4. All solar panels shall be constructed to minimize glare or reflection onto
              adjacent properties and adjacent roadways and shall not interfere with traffic,
              including air traffic, or create a safety hazard for people or wildlife.
           5. Ground mounted solar arrays are exempt from lot coverage and impervious
              surface requirements if the area under the system remains permeable.
               a. Application Requirements
                  i. A decommissioning plan that includes, but is not limited to, the
                     anticipated life of the ground solar equipment, disposal methods of the
                     equipment, the way the site will be restored, and the timeline for the
                     removal of the ground solar equipment following the cessation of
                     operations or irreparable damage to panels or equipment. The applicant
                     shall also provide the method in which the panels or components will
                     be recycled at the end of their useful life. Decommissioning shall be
                     completed in accordance with the approved decommissioning plan.
                  ii. A fire protection plan that provides fire protection measures and
                      describes fire suppression methods for the construction and operation of
                      the energy project. The applicable fire authority shall approve the fire
                      protection plan as a condition of approval.
                  iii. An emergency response plan that outlines procedures for safe shutdown,
                       de-energizing or isolation of equipment and systems under emergency
                       conditions.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 162
                   iv. A vegetative management plan that includes methods for managing
                       noxious weeds, proposed vegetation on the site along with locations,
                       and justification for proposed vegetation or lack thereof.
        d. Energy Storage Facility
            1. Battery energy storage systems shall meet the minimum setback for the district
               in which it is located.
            2. Perimeter security fencing shall comply with federal requirements and shall be
               designed to prevent public entry. Fencing shall be maintained in good condition
               until the installation is dismantled and removed from the site.
                a. Application Requirements
                   i. A fire protection plan that provides fire protection measures and
                      describes fire suppression methods for the construction and operation of
                      the energy project. The applicable fire authority shall approve the fire
                      protection plan as a condition of approval.
                   ii. An emergency response plan that outlines procedures for safe shutdown,
                       de-energizing or isolation of equipment and systems under emergency
                       conditions and a plan for training local first responders on appropriate
                       response procedures.
                   iii. A decommissioning plan that includes, but is not limited to, the
                        anticipated life of the equipment, disposal methods of the equipment,
                        the timeline for removal of the equipment following irreparable damage
                        or cessation of operations. The applicant shall also provide the method
                        in which the components will be recycled at the end of the useful life.
                        Decommissioning shall be completed in accordance with the approved
                        decommissioning plan.
  D. Specific Standards for Certain Distributed Power Facilities
     1. Geothermal Resources. Direct use of geothermal resources for heating spas,
        greenhouses, and other similar uses shall not constitute a distributed power facility.
     2. Solar Facility
        a. All solar panels shall be constructed to minimize glare or reflection onto adjacent
           properties and adjacent roadways and shall not interfere with traffic, including air
           traffic, or create a safety hazard for people or wildlife.
        b. Roof mounted solar equipment shall not exceed five feet (5') above the roof surface
           and in no case shall the equipment exceed the maximum height of the base district.
        c. Ground and pole solar equipment shall be prohibited in the required front or side
           yard.
        d. Pole solar equipment shall not exceed a maximum height of fifteen feet (15').
        e. Pole solar equipment shall be set back one and a half feet (1.5’) from the property
           line for every one foot (1') of maximum height or the minimum setback for the
           district, whichever is greater.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 163
        f. Ground solar equipment shall meet the minimum setback for the district in which
           it is located.
     3. Wind Facility
        a. Specific Standards for Rooftop or Freestanding Wind Tower.
           1. Approval may be required from the appropriate agency, including, but not
              limited to, the following: Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Federal
              Aviation Administration, National Guard, Mountain Home military base, Idaho
              Bureau of Aeronautics, Boise Airport Director, IPUC, Idaho Power Company
              compliance, Idaho Fish and Game, U.S. Department of Fish and Wildlife, Idaho
              Department of Water Resources, Idaho Department of Environmental Quality,
              Ada County Emergency Communications Division, Idaho Bureau of Homeland
              Security Public Safety Communications, and the appropriate fire authority as a
              condition of approval.
           2. Documentation shall be submitted that describes the expected maximum noise
              level that will be generated by the facility. If the noise level exceeds the
              applicable standard set forth below, an acoustical study shall be prepared by a
              licensed professional that demonstrates how the facility will comply with the
              maximum allowed noise level.
           3. No experimental, homebuilt, or prototype wind turbines shall be allowed.
        b. Rooftop Wind Facilities
           1. The minimum property size shall be one acre.
           2. One rooftop wind facility requires an accessory use.
           3. Two (2) or more rooftop wind facilities require a conditional use.
           4. Rooftop wind equipment shall not exceed the maximum height of the base
              district in which it is located.
           5. The maximum diameter of the blades shall not exceed five feet (5’).
           6. Roof mounted wind equipment shall be located so that in the event of failure,
              no part of the equipment will fall across any property line.
           7. Noise emitted from a rooftop wind facility shall not exceed thirty-five (35)
              decibels (dBA) measured from all external property lines of the subject
              property.
        c. Freestanding Wind Facilities
           1. The minimum property size shall be forty (40) acres.
           2. One wind tower per forty (40) acres shall be allowed.
           3. A property owner shall only be allowed to construct a maximum of two (2)
              wind towers on their property, including all of their abutting properties.
           4. The maximum height shall be one hundred twenty feet (120’) including the tip
              height of the blade.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 164
             5. All wind tower facilities shall be located a minimum of one and a half feet (1.5’)
                from all property lines for every one foot (1’) of tower height, including the tip
                height of the blade as illustrated in Figure 8-4-54-1 Wind Facility Fall Zone and
                Setback (Overhead View Example).
             6. In addition to the setback requirements in subsection 8-4-54D3.c.5 of this
                Section, a fall zone for each wind tower facility shall be delineated and
                permanently restricted from future development, as follows:
                 a. The fall zone shall consist of the land area centered beneath the wind facility
                    and circumscribed by a circle with a radius equal to the maximum height
                    including the tip height of the blade plus ten feet (10’) as illustrated in
                    Figure 8-4-54-1 Wind Facility Fall Zone and Setback (Overhead View
                    Example) and Figure 8-4-54-2 Wind Facility Fall Zone (Side View
                    Example).

Figure 8-4-54-1 Wind Facility Fall Zone and Setback (Overhead View Example)




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 165
Figure 8-4-54-2 Wind Facility Fall Zone (Side View Example)




                 b. All future development (with the exception of agricultural structures) is
                    prohibited within the fall zone.
              7. Minimum Setback from Overhead Utility Lines. The minimum required
                 setback distance from all overhead utility lines shall be no less than the tower
                 height including the tip height of the blade plus ten feet (10’) unless extended
                 by an easement from the overhead utility line company for the fall distance.
              8. Maintenance and Removal
                 a. Maintenance. All wind facilities and their identification tags, supports,
                    braces, mechanical and electrical equipment, and associated apparatus must
                    be kept fully operable and maintained in a safe, neat, and clean condition.
                 b. Removal. Any wind facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
                    twelve (12) months or more or that is in an obvious state of disrepair and a
                    threat to public safety will be deemed abandoned and must be removed
                    within sixty (60) days.
              9. Shadow Flicker. The facility owner and operator shall make reasonable efforts
                 to minimize shadow flicker to any nonparticipating landowner’s property.
              10. Color. Wind facilities shall be a neutral, nonreflective color designed to blend
                  with the surrounding environment. This shall not preclude towers requiring
                  FAA painting and/or marking from meeting those standards.
              11. Minimum Distance from Ground to Blade. Minimum distance between the
                  ground and the tip of the blade closest to the ground in a resting position shall
                  not be less than twenty feet (20’).
              12. Landscaping. Wind facilities are exempt from Section 8-3-7 (Landscaping
                  and Screening).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 166
                 13. Lighting. No lighting is allowed, except as required by the Federal Aviation
                     Administration.
                 14. Uncontrolled Rotation Prevention. All wind turbines must have an
                     automatic braking, governing, or feathering system to prevent uncontrolled
                     rotation creating excessive pressure on the tower structure, rotor blades, and
                     turbine components.
                 15. Emergency Shutdown. Procedures for emergency shutdown of power
                     generation units shall be established and posted prominently and permanently
                     within three feet (3’) of the meter panel.
                 16. Director’s Review. The conditional use permit shall require a Director’s
                     review every five (5) years upon issuance of a zoning certificate. The Director
                     shall review the conditions of approval for compliance.
                 17. Noise. Noise emitted from a freestanding wind facility shall not exceed forty-
                     five (45) decibels (dBA) as measured from all external property lines of the
                     subject property.
8-4-55:      Processing Plants for Agricultural or Dairy Products
   A. Separation. All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located at least three hundred
      feet (300’) from any property line. The use shall be located at least one thousand feet
      (1,000’) from any residential district, residential use, or approved medical care facility use.
   B. Regulatory Compliance Documentation. The application materials shall include written
      documentation that the proposed facility meets any applicable federal, state, or local
      standards regarding such use including, but not limited to, those of the Environmental
      Protection Agency, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Central District Health
      Department, and Idaho Department of Water Resources.
8-4-56:      Produce Stand, Agricultural or Roadside
   A. Standards for Both Agricultural and Roadside Produce Stands
          1. Number Allowed. One (1) stand per property under one ownership is allowed, subject
             to approval as set forth in this Chapter.
          2. Duration. Display and sale of produce shall be allowed from May 1 to October 31 each
             year.
          3. Access. Access to a stand shall be from a roadway and shall be approved by the Ada
             County Highway District or Idaho Department of Transportation.
          4. Private Road Requirements. A stand shall not be allowed on private roads unless one
             of the following can be demonstrated:
             a. The private road does not provide access or frontage to any other property; or
             b. An existing or updated recorded maintenance/easement agreement addresses and
                permits nonresidential use of the private road.
          5. Hours of Operation. Hours of operation shall be limited between the hours of eight
             o’clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) P.M.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 167
          6. Building Permits
             a. A building permit may be required for the change in use or occupancy of any
                portion of structures used for the stand.
             b. A stand that is a membrane covered structure under the Idaho Building Code shall
                require a building permit if it is erected for one hundred eighty (180) days or longer.
          7. Parking. All parking and access areas shall have a six inch (6”) thick surface coarse
             layer of crushed aggregate meeting Type I or Type II of the latest edition of Idaho
             Standards for Public Works Construction (ISPWC). The existing subgrade must be
             compacted, and proof rolled. The applicant, operator, or owner is responsible for
             complying with rules for the control of air pollution in Idaho by controlling fugitive dust
             as required by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality.
   B. Additional standards for agricultural produce stands
          1. The agricultural produce stand shall only be located on a "farm" as defined in this Title.
          2. The agricultural produce stand shall only sell produce grown on the premises.
          3. A zoning certificate is required.
          4. The area dedicated to the sale, display and storage of produce shall not exceed four
             hundred (400) square feet.
   C. Additional standards for roadside produce stands
          1. Administrative approval and zoning certificate is required.
          2. Sales at the roadside produce stand shall be limited to ninety percent (90%) of the
             produce sold, must be grown on the premises.
          3. The area dedicated to the sale, display and storage of produce shall not exceed six
             hundred (600) square feet.
8-4-57:      Public or Quasi-Public Use
   A. Public Recreation Facilities. The standards as set forth for amusement and recreation
      facilities shall apply for all public recreation facilities.
   B. Storm Drainage and Storm Detention Facilities. A storm drainage facility and/or storm
      detention facility that is an accessory use to a roadway on the same property is exempt. For
      the purposes of this standard, subsection 8-3-2D (Contiguous Parcels) does not apply.
   C. Underground Utilities. Underground utilities within an easement or within a public street
      right of way shall not require additional approval.
   D. Correctional Facilities. Any privately owned correctional facility designed for residence
      by incarcerated individuals shall meet the following standards:
          1. No structure or outdoor recreation area shall be located within one thousand feet
             (1,000') of a property line that abuts a residential district or residential use.
          2. No structure or outdoor recreation area shall be located within one thousand feet
             (1,000') of a public or private school, day care center, or church.
8-4-58:      Racetrack


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 168
   A. Setbacks. All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located at least three hundred
      feet (300') from any property line. The use shall be located at least one thousand feet
      (1,000') from any residential district or residential use.
   B. Sound. Any outdoor speaker system associated with the racetrack shall comply with
      Section 5-13-3 of the Ada County Code.
   C. Lighting. Lighted facilities shall maintain a three-hundred-foot (300') setback from any
      property line abutting a residential district or residential use. Setback requirements may be
      reduced at time of master site plan approval when conditions warrant a reduction. Possible
      conditions include, but are not limited to, building orientation, topography, distance to off-
      site improvements, and physical obstructions.
   D. Retail Sales. Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops and food or
      beverage service, may be allowed if designed to serve patrons of the facility only, and is
      approved by the Central District Health Department and the applicable fire authority.
8-4-59:      Railroad Switching Yard
   A. Setbacks. All structures shall be located at least one hundred feet (100') from any
      residential district or residential use.
   B. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use standards
      in this Chapter.
8-4-60:      Recreation Vehicle Park
   A. Use of Spaces. Spaces may be used by recreation vehicles, tents, or other shelter
      arrangements or devices.
   B. Accessory Uses. Accessory uses including, but not limited to, management headquarters,
      recreational facilities, caretaker dwelling, coin operated laundry facilities, toilets, and
      showers may be allowed, subject to the following restrictions:
          1. The park shall have direct access to a collector or arterial street. No entrance or exit to
             the park shall be permitted through a residential district.
   C. Drives. Drives shall comply with the following standards and are subject to plan review,
      field inspection, and approval by the County Engineer:
          1. A minimum of one drive shall originate at a public street and terminate at a public
             street. This standard is not intended to require two (2) access points to the recreational
             vehicle park.
          2. Drives shall have rolled concrete curb and gutter sections along both sides of the drive
             and extending the length of the drive.
          3. Drives shall be at least thirty feet (30') wide from back of curb to back of curb. The
             entire width of the drive shall be improved.
          4. Drive shall have a crown or transverse slope a minimum of two percent (2%) to drain
             water away from the travelway and shall be disposed of in a manner that protects life
             and property.
          5. The improved surface shall include two and a half (2.5”) inches of asphalt plant mix
             paving on top of the base course of six inches (6") of three-fourths inch (3/4") minus

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 169
             crushed gravel or other materials approved by the County Engineer over a stable
             compacted subbase. As an alternative to asphalt plant mix, concrete shall be allowed
             with the approval of the County Engineer.
          6. Bridge and culvert crossings shall be designed for a minimum H-93 loading.
          7. The maximum allowable grade shall be ten percent (10%) slope.
          8. The minimum center line curve radius shall be fifty feet (50').
          9. The minimum curb radius at intersections shall be twenty feet (20').
   D. Design Standards
          1. The park shall have direct access to a collector or arterial street. No entrance or exit
             shall be permitted which moves traffic from the park through a residential district.
          2. Internal drives shall meet the drive standards required for a manufactured home park.
          3. The application shall indicate the specific location of each proposed space on the master
             site plan.
             a. All recreational vehicle spaces shall have an all-weather surface and be drained to
                prevent standing water.
             b. Spaces shall be a minimum size of one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet.
             c. Recreational vehicles shall not be located closer than ten feet (10') to any other
                recreational vehicle, structure, manufactured home, public street, or property line.
             d. Recreational vehicle spaces shall not be located in any required off-street parking
                space or required yard.
          4. A dump station for discharging wastewater holding tanks shall be provided unless each
             space is equipped with a sewer connection. Such discharge facilities shall be approved
             by the Central District Health Department.
8-4-61:     Recycling Center
   A. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use standards in this Chapter. No
      storage, excluding truck trailers, shall be visible above the required screening material.
   B. Except for after-hours donation containers, no unsorted material shall be stored outdoors.
   C. Any container provided for after-hours donation of recyclable materials shall be at least
      fifty feet (50') from a residential district or residential use, shall be of sturdy, rustproof
      construction, and shall have sufficient capacity to accommodate materials collected.
   D. Power driven processing (including, but not limited to, aluminum foil and can compacting,
      baling, plastic shredding, or other light processing activities necessary for efficient
      temporary storage and shipment of materials) may be allowed when located within an
      enclosed structure.
   E. All recycling center grounds and facilities shall be maintained in an orderly manner to not
      create a public nuisance.
8-4-62:      Retail Sales, Accessory



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 170
   A. Generally
          1. Accessory retail sales are allowed for an approved commercial or industrial use,
             excluding uses within the M3 district.
          2. The area devoted to retail sales shall not occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%)
             of the gross floor area of the approved use.
          3. Unless otherwise permitted in this Title or as a condition of approval, no accessory
             retail sales shall be permitted in the rural base districts.
8-4-63:      Sanitary Landfill
   A. Setbacks. All structures shall be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any property
      line.
   B. Separation. Active landfill disposal sites shall be located at least one thousand feet (1,000')
      from any residential district and/or residential use.
   C. Conditions. Conditions may specify definite time limits for daily operation and for
      termination of such use.
   D. County and State Regulations. Compliance with all applicable regulations pertaining to
      designation, licensing and maintenance of restricted sanitary landfills and disposal sites as
      set forth in Title 5, Chapter 2 of this code; Idaho Code Title 31, Chapter 44; and Title 39,
      Chapters 65, 70, and 74 is required.
   E. Development Standards. All structures shall comply with the height limit per the
      applicable base district unless specifically exempt under subsection 8-3-2F (Dimensional
      Standards).
8-4-64:      Sawmill or Planing Mill
   A. Enclosure. The use shall be conducted within an enclosed structure.
   B. Separation. There shall be a one-thousand-foot (1,000') separation from the mill structure
      and any residential district.
   C. Outdoor Storage. Outdoor storage areas shall comply with the specific use standards in
      this Chapter.
8-4-65:      School
   A. Location. Locations for school sites are determined in conformance with the applicable
      comprehensive plan. The following location criteria shall apply unless in conflict with the
      applicable comprehensive plan:
          1. Elementary schools (Kindergarten through 5th Grade) shall take access off a local or
             collector street.
          2. Middle schools, junior high schools, and senior high schools (6th through 12th Grades)
             shall take access off a designated arterial, collector, or local street.
          3. No school except for a high school, shall abut a commercial or industrial district.
          4. No school shall be located in a floodplain or adjacent to a hazardous land use.
   B. Setbacks. All structures shall meet a minimum setback of:


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 171
          1. Forty feet (40') from any public street;
          2. Thirty feet (30') from any other property line.
   C. Accessory Uses. Accessory uses including, but not limited to, day care centers, community
      services, social services, meeting facilities for clubs and organizations, and administrative
      offices for the individual school facility may be allowed.
8-4-66:      Seasonal Farmworker Housing
   A. Justification. The application shall specify the season and crop for which the housing is
      required. The housing shall not be occupied or otherwise used as dwelling units other than
      during the specifically permitted period.
   B. Sewage and Water. All housing shall have adequate sewage and water facilities as
      provided in Section 8-3-5. If recreational vehicles are proposed as dwelling units, such
      recreational vehicles shall have power, water, and sewer hookups.
   C. Accessory Uses. Accessory uses including, but not limited to, management headquarters,
      recreation areas, coin operated laundry facilities, and communal toilets and showers, may
      be allowed if such facilities are designated on the facility master site plan and are to be
      used only by residents of the facility.
   D. Separation. No structure shall be closer than one hundred feet (100’) from an abutting
      property within a residential district or residential use. No structure shall be closer than ten
      feet (10’) from any other structure.
   E. Access Drives/Parking. Access drives and parking areas shall have a durable and dust free
      surface, and the area shall be graded so as to drain all surface water from the driveways.
   F. Enforcement. If the owner is found to be in violation of any of the standards listed in this
      Section, the approval or permit shall be revoked. Upon revocation of a permit or approval,
      the owner may not reapply for housing for any location in the County for a period of three
      (3) years following the date of revocation.
8-4-67:      Septage Treatment and Disposal Facility
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any septage treatment and disposal facility that
      imports septage from septic tanks for treatment and disposal.
   B. General Use Standards
          1. Minimum Property Size. The minimum property size shall be forty (40) acres.
          2. Written Approval. The owner shall obtain written approval for the acceptance,
             treatment, and disposal of septage from the state of Idaho Department of Environmental
             Quality (DEQ). The approval shall make specific reference to the location of the
             facility, type of facility, the substance(s) being treated and its sources, the method(s) of
             treatment, the method(s) and location(s) of disposal of solids, monitoring methods, and
             the ability of the site to support the proposed use.
          3. Security Fencing. Security fencing shall be provided to prevent access to the facility
             by animals and unauthorized persons as required by DEQ.
          4. Prohibited Locations. The proposed use shall not be located in any city area of impact,
             the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area, airport overlay district, or

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 172
             wildlife habitat area as depicted in the Ada County comprehensive plan.
          5. Minimum Distance from Property Line/Residential District. All structures,
             ponds/lagoons, and waste storage areas shall be located at least three hundred feet
             (300') from any property line. The use shall be located at least one thousand feet (1,000')
             from any residential district or residential use.
          6. Operator Licensed and Qualified. Written approval that the operator of the private
             septage disposal facility is licensed and qualified as required by DEQ shall be
             submitted.
          7. Private Roads Prohibited. Private septage treatment and disposal facilities shall not
             be allowed on a private road.
          8. Odor Management Plan. An odor management plan for the septage disposal facility
             as required by DEQ shall be submitted.
   C. Application Requirements
          1. The application materials shall include the following written documentation:
             a. Description of the surrounding area within one mile of the subject site including
                the proximity of existing residential dwellings;
             b. The number and frequency of anticipated deliveries from outside companies
                dumping septage;
             c. The anticipated quantity (in gallons) of septage to be accepted;
             d. One parking spot for every one employee and one parking spot for every one
                thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area;
             e. The hours and days of operation;
             f. Description of the disposal method(s), including, but not limited to: evaporative
                lagoon(s), land application, or subsurface discharge (interment), and proposed
                location of disposal;
             g. Description of the proposed substance(s) being treated and its source(s), the
                method(s) of treatment, monitoring methods, and the ability of the site to support
                the proposed use;
             h. Storage and screening method for materials to be used to process solid waste (i.e.,
                woodchips) and location of storage goods.
8-4-68:      Shooting Range
   A. Written Approval. Written approval from the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and
      Firearms is required.
   B. Outdoor Range
          1. The proposed use shall be within a rural district, but outside the Snake River Birds of
             Prey National Conservation Area or wildlife habitat area as depicted in the Ada County
             comprehensive plan.
          2. The master site plan shall designate the layout of the range including, but not limited


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 173
             to, shooting platforms, targets, target backstops, structures, and berms.
          3. The range shall be designed and located so no ammunition travels off site.
          4. Written documentation that the proposed target backstops conform to the standards for
             outdoor ranges in "The NRA Range Source Book" published by the National Rifle
             Association shall be provided.
          5. An outdoor shooting range may also include covers or structures where the shooter
             shoots from within to an outdoor target.
   C. Indoor Range
          1. All related activities shall be housed totally within an enclosed structure and designed
             with full consideration for safety and noise factors involved in the type of use.
          2. If located on the ground level, accessory uses such as gun sales, gun repair, and training
             courses may be allowed when such uses take up no more than twenty five percent
             (25%) of the gross floor area on the ground level.
          3. If gun sales or gun repair are conducted within the range, the owner of the indoor
             shooting range shall secure and maintain a valid federal firearms license from the
             Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms.
          4. Written documentation that the proposed target backstops conform to the standards for
             indoor ranges in "The NRA Range Source Book" published by the National Rifle
             Association shall be provided.
8-4-69:      Soil or Water Remediation
   A. Applicability
          1. This Section applies to any soil or water remediation use.
          2. The following standards apply to establishments that import soil and/or water for
             remediation. The standards do not apply to on-site soil/water remediation.
   B. Property Size. The minimum property size shall be forty (40) acres.
   C. Setback
          1. All structures shall be located at least three hundred feet (300') from any property line.
   D. Separation
          1. The use shall be located at least one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district
             or residential use or approved medical care facility use.
          2. The proposed use shall not be located in the Snake River Birds of Prey National
             Conservation Area or wildlife habitat area as depicted in the Ada County
             comprehensive plan.
   E. State/Local Approval
          1. The owner shall obtain written approval from the state of Idaho Department of
             Environmental Quality. The approval shall make specific reference to the location,
             substance being treated, method of treatment, monitoring methods, and ability of the
             site to support the proposed use.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 174
          2. The owner shall obtain written approval from Central District Health Department.
8-4-70:      Storage Facility, Self-Service
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any self-service storage facility, except for outdoor
      only facilities.
   B. Prohibited Activities
          1. Storage facilities shall not be used as dwellings or as a commercial or industrial place
             of business.
          2. The manufacture or sale of any item from or at a self-service storage facility is
             prohibited.
          3. Storage of any hazardous materials as defined by Title 40 code of Federal Regulations
             part 261, or subsequent amendments thereto, shall be prohibited.
   C. Size. The maximum size of an individual storage area is five hundred (500) square feet.
   D. Travel Lanes. The distance between structures shall be designed to allow a twelve-foot
      (12') travel lane for emergency vehicles to pass while tenant's vehicles are parallel parked
      (9-foot width) at the entrance to their individual storage areas.
   E. Fencing. The perimeter of the storage facility shall be completely fenced, walled, or
      enclosed and screened from public view. Fencing materials shall complement the exterior
      building materials.
   F. Separation. No structure, facility, drive lane, parking area, nor loading area shall be
      located within twenty feet (20') of a residential district unless a six-foot (6') sound reduction
      wall is provided.
   G. Hours of Operation. If abutting a residential district, the facility hours of public operation
      are limited to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
8-4-71:      Storage Facility, Self-Service – Outdoor Only
   A. Property/Project Size. A minimum property size of five (5) acres is required. No facility
      shall exceed ten (10) acres in size.
   B. Frontage. The property shall have frontage to an arterial or collector street.
   C. Prohibited Activities
          1. Dwellings; Places of Business. Stored vehicles, including RVs and trailers, shall not
             be used as dwellings or as a commercial or industrial place of business. The
             manufacture or sale of any item from or at an outdoor only self-service storage facility
             is specifically prohibited.
          2. Storage of Hazardous Materials. Storage of any hazardous materials as defined by
             Title 40 code of Federal Regulations part 261, or subsequent amendments, is
             prohibited.
          3. Use As a Junkyard Prohibited. The site shall not be used as a junkyard or automobile
             wrecking yard.
          4. Storage. The storage of any items and materials other than vehicles, RVs, or trailers is


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 175
          prohibited. However, items and materials contained within a vehicle, RV or trailer are
          permitted.
      5. Use of Site. The site shall not be used as a contractor's yard unless that use is separately
         approved.
      6. On-Site Office Prohibited. An on-site office within the confines of the storage facility
         is prohibited. If the facility owner has a dwelling located on the remaining property,
         and if that dwelling will be used by the owner to administer the facility, or if the owner
         intends to administer the facility from an off-site dwelling, then the owner shall obtain
         a home occupation permit and comply with the Home Occupation requirements in this
         Chapter.
  D. Distance Between Stored Vehicles. The distance between stored vehicles, including RVs
     and trailers, shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') side to side, while maintaining a twenty
     foot (20’) minimum access aisle on at least one end or as approved by the local fire
     authority. The distance between parking rows shall be at least twenty feet (20') of travel
     lane for emergency vehicle access or as approved by the local fire authority. Each space
     shall have access from an access aisle that is a minimum of twenty feet (20').
  E. Screening. The perimeter of the storage facility shall be completely fenced, walled, or
     enclosed and screened from the public right of way, and comply with Section 8-3-7
     (Landscaping and Screening). For the purpose of perimeter landscaping and screening,
     property lines (as described in Section 8-3-7) refer to the specific facility boundaries.
  F. Separation. No portion of the facility shall be located within one hundred feet (100') of a
     property line adjacent to a rural, transitional, or residential district, with the exception of a
     property line adjacent to a public roadway.
  G. Design Standards. Minimum design standards for the facility shall include the following:
      1. The storage facility shall be screened year-round and comply with Section 8-3-7. This
         Section provides for the minimum required screening. Additional or modified
         screening and/or buffering may be required in order to prevent or enhance the blocking
         of views of existing adjacent residences and to maintain the rural and residential
         character of the RUT district.
      2. Access locations into the facility shall be approved by the applicable transportation
         jurisdiction.
      3. All parking, storage and drive aisles within the facility shall be improved with a
         compacted gravel base, not less than four inches (4") thick, surfaced with asphaltic
         concrete or some comparable all weather dustless material.
      4. All storage stalls shall be clearly defined on the site plan. The facility shall designate
         and maintain storage stall locations on site at all times.
      5. Outdoor storage areas shall further comply with the specific use standards in this
         Chapter.
  H. Maintenance, Repair, or Rebuilding. Maintenance, repair, or rebuilding of vehicles or
     machinery on the property is prohibited.
  I. Hours of Operation. Unless otherwise approved or restricted through the conditional use,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 176
          hours of operation shall be limited between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten
          o'clock (10:00) P.M. Facilities abutting residential uses (Section 8-10-2, Figure 8-10-2-3
          Dwelling Types) are limited to the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock
          (8:00) P.M.
   J. Prohibited Locations. Vehicles shall not be stored within required yards.
   K. Additional Standards
          1. The following shall be considered as part of the review of an application:
             a. The proximity of existing dwellings;
             b. The number of vehicles anticipated to be stored upon the property;
             c. The hours of operation;
             d. Dust;
             e. Noise;
             f. Traffic and circulation;
             g. Landscaping and screening;
             h. Other.
          2. The duration of a conditional use permit for an outdoor only storage facility shall be
             limited. The conditional use permit shall expire five (5) years following the approval
             date, or upon annexation of the subject property into a city, whichever occurs first. If
             continuing the use beyond the five (5) year period is requested, a new conditional use
             permit shall be submitted and must be given approval prior to expiration of the original
             conditional use permit. Upon expiration of the conditional use permit, all stored
             vehicles shall be removed within thirty (30) days from the subject property.
8-4-72:      Tannery
   A. Generally
          1. The applicant or owner shall obtain written approval of the State of Idaho Department
             of Environmental Quality for elimination of waste materials.
          2. The tannery shall have adequate sewer and water facilities.
   B. Setbacks. All structures or outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of three
      hundred feet (300') from any property line.
   C. Separation. The use shall be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from any
      residential district or approved medical care facility.
8-4-73:      Temporary Uses
   A. Generally
          1. Except for those uses that may be allowed in this Title for periods exceeding twelve
             (12) months, the use may be granted for a specified period not exceeding twelve (12)
             months from issuance of the zoning certificate. If the use will continue beyond twelve
             (12) months, then a conditional use and/or master site plan application must be


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 177
         submitted and approved.
     2. The use shall not result in the construction of any permanent structure that would not
        otherwise be permitted subject to these regulations.
     3. No structure shall be located within a required yard, nor shall any structure obstruct the
        "clear vision triangle".
     4. Temporary signs less than or equal to six (6) square feet in area are exempt. Temporary
        signs shall not exceed forty-eight (48) square feet.
     5. The owner has a continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to
        not create a nuisance.
     6. For uses that require Director approval, the Director may require additional conditions
        to mitigate impacts. The conditions may include, but not be limited to, any or all of the
        following:
         a. Standards related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other potentially
            objectionable impacts.
         b. Limits on time of day of the specified use.
         c. Other standards necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and
            mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
  B. Seasonal Stands. The zoning certificate shall specify a beginning and end date.
  C. Fireworks Stand. Fireworks stands shall meet the following additional standards.
     1. Prior to the issuance of a zoning certificate, the owner shall obtain a permit to sell
        fireworks in accordance with Idaho Code Section 39-2604 from the appropriate fire
        district.
     2. Dates of fireworks sales shall comply with Idaho Code Section 39-2606.
  D. Subdivision Model Home/Real Estate Sales Offices. Subdivision model home/real estate
     sales offices shall meet the following additional standards.
     1. The sales office shall be located on a lot within a subdivision or planned unit
        development, or on a space within a manufactured home park.
     2. The principal use of the sales office shall be the sale of lots and/or dwellings or renting
        of spaces within the development.
     3. The sales office shall meet the construction standards for a commercial occupancy as
        required by the Ada County Building Code established in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this
        code. The owner shall obtain all necessary building permits as required by the Ada
        County Building Code established in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
     4. The owner shall obtain a building permit to convert the sales office to a dwelling or
        shall remove the sales office within thirty (30) days of the sale or rental of the final lot
        or space.
     5. Subdivision model home/real estate sales offices may operate continually for over
        twelve (12) months upon the Director's approval.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 178
  E. Temporary Dwelling Units
     1. Permission to live in an existing dwelling or a temporary manufactured home is allowed
        until the completion of the construction of the new principal permitted dwelling, or for
        up to twelve (12) months, whichever time period is less, unless otherwise permitted.
     2. The existing dwelling or the temporary manufactured home shall be removed prior to
        issuance of the certificate of occupancy for the principal permitted dwelling unless the
        existing dwelling or manufactured home is approved for use as a secondary dwelling.
  F. Temporary Pit, Mine, or Quarry. For standards related to temporary permits for a
     temporary pit, mine, or quarry in a residential district, see the specific temporary use
     standards in this Chapter (Pit, Mine, or Quarry).
  G. Temporary Living Quarters. Temporary living quarters shall meet the following
     additional required standards.
     1. The temporary living quarters is needed to house a member of the owner's immediate
        family or the owner's employee.
         a. Need for temporary living quarters for a family member shall be justified for
            reasons of health, employment, or upkeep on the property.
         b. Need for temporary living quarters for an employee shall be justified for reasons of
            upkeep on the property, supervision of livestock, healthcare of owner, or crop
            management. For the purposes of this Section, "owner's employee" shall mean a
            person employed on the premises by the property owner and receiving not less than
            seventy five percent (75%) of the employee's annual income from said property
            owners.
     2. The temporary living quarters shall be a securely anchored manufactured home.
     3. The temporary living quarters shall not be permanently affixed to the property and shall
        be maintained in a condition to permit removal of the unit upon termination of the
        authorized use or expiration of the approval.
     4. The temporary living quarters shall have adequate sewage facilities as provided for in
        Section 8-3-5.
     5. No more than one temporary living quarters is allowed on a property.
     6. The property shall be maintained in a neat and orderly manner and shall not differ in
        appearance from surrounding residential uses.
     7. The temporary living quarters, any attached structures, and the anchoring devices shall
        be removed from the property within thirty (30) days of termination of the authorized
        use or expiration of the approval.
     8. Temporary living quarters may be approved for a maximum of two (2) years. The
        duration of the temporary living quarters approval may be extended for up to four (4)
        additional 2-year time periods, by securing a zoning certificate prior to the expiration
        date of the temporary use or previous zoning certificate extension. After ten (10) years,
        a new application is required to establish a new temporary living quarters.
  H. Anemometers/Wind Facility Feasibility Devices. An anemometer or similar device for


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 179
          the purpose of determining feasibility of a wind facility site shall meet the following
          additional standards:
          1. An anemometer for a distributed power facility, wind freestanding tower shall only be
             allowed in the RP, RR, and RUT districts on property containing a minimum of forty
             (40) acres and shall not exceed a height of one hundred twenty feet (120'), including
             the maximum tip height.
          2. An anemometer for distributed power facility, wind rooftop shall only be allowed in
             the RP, RR, RUT, RSW, R1 districts, on property containing a minimum of one acre
             and shall not exceed the height of the base district in which it is located.
8-4-74:      Tower or Antenna Structure, Commercial
   A. Applicability
          1. This Section applies to tower structures and associated equipment, including but not
             limited to the purposes of commercial radio, television, telephone, paging, or satellite
             reception and/or transmission.
          2. A structure that meets the following standards is reviewed as an accessory use. Any
             other structure is reviewed as a conditional use.
             a. Collocation of new antenna and/or equipment for an approved commercial tower
                structure is an accessory use and requires a zoning certificate prior to installation.
             b. Small wireless facilities are an accessory use and require a zoning certificate prior
                to installation.
             c. Small Wireless Support Structures located outside of the Ada County Highway
                District and Idaho Department of Transportation rights-of-way require a zoning
                certificate and building permit prior to installation.
   B. General Standards for Commercial Tower Structures and Associated Equipment
          1. Radio Frequency Emissions. The structure and equipment shall comply with FCC
             standards regarding radio frequency (RF) emissions.
          2. Approval Required. The structure and equipment shall have approval from the
             Federal Aviation Administration and the Chief of the Idaho Bureau of Aeronautics
             prior to operation.
          3. Additional Approval. The structure and equipment shall have approval from the Boise
             Airport Director prior to operation. The approval shall include specific reference to the
             site location, height of the tower, lighting, and issuance of an avigation easement.
          4. Permits Required. All necessary permits required under Federal, State, or local
             statutes, regulations, or ordinances including, but not limited to, building permits shall
             be obtained.
          5. Maintenance of Structure and Equipment. The structure and equipment shall
             comply with all Federal, State, and local regulations and the construction standards
             established in this Section.
          6. Outdoor Storage Areas. The proposed structure and equipment shall comply with the
             specific use standards for Outdoor Storage Area in this Chapter.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 180
     7. Conditional Use Approval. For any structure and equipment requiring conditional use
        approval, the Director shall notify all property owners within one thousand feet (1,000')
        of any property boundary of the proposed site.
     8. Removal
        a.   Any structure that has had no antenna mounted upon it for a period of one hundred
             twenty (120) consecutive days, or if the antennas mounted thereon are not operated
             for a period of one hundred twenty (120) successive days, shall be considered
             abandoned. The structure owner or landowner shall:
             1. Remove any such structure and any accompanying equipment enclosure within
                ninety (90) days of abandonment; and
             2. Bring the location of the removed structure back to its original state, or better.
        b. The Director, upon determining that a structure has been abandoned, shall serve
           notice of its determination of abandonment upon the owner of the structure.
             1. The notice shall contain the reasons why the structure has been deemed
                abandoned, the owner's obligation to remove the structure and the owner's right
                to appeal the determination of abandonment.
             2. If the structure and equipment enclosure are not removed within ninety (90)
                days, then the County has the right without further notice to enter upon the land
                and remove and abate such structures at the expense of the tower owner or
                landowner.
     9. Structure Construction, Setback, and Fall Zone Standards
        a. The structure shall be constructed to the Telecommunications Industry
           Association/Electronic Industries Association (TIA/EIA) 222 revision F standard
           entitled "Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Supporting Structures,” or as
           hereinafter may be amended.
        b. Within the Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas Overlay District, the height
           limit on the tower structure or antenna structure shall be as required by the Code of
           Federal Regulations 14 CFR 77.
        c. The design for structures over twenty feet (20’) tall must allow for future
           arrangements of antennas upon the structure. These towers must also be designed
           to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
        d. If the tower does not exceed the height limitations of the applicable base district,
           the tower shall meet the setback requirements of the district. If the tower exceeds
           the height limitation of the applicable base district, the tower shall meet the setback
           requirements of the district or it shall set back one foot (1’) for every ten feet (10’)
           of total tower height from all property lines, whichever is greater.
        e. In addition to the setback requirement noted in the preceding paragraph, a fall zone
           for each tower shall be delineated and permanently restricted from future
           development, as follows:
             1. The fall zone shall consist of the land area centered beneath the tower and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 181
               circumscribed by a circle with a radius equal to a length of one foot (1’) for
               every ten feet (10’) of tower height.
            2. If the fall zone does not lie completely within the subject property, a
               nonrevocable easement shall be obtained from all owners of property within the
               fall zone that prohibits the construction or placement of new structures within
               the fall zone, except as may be specifically permitted through the conditional
               use process. If an easement is utilized, a copy of the fully executed easement
               agreement shall be submitted as part of the application.
        f. Towers shall be architecturally and visually compatible with the existing structures,
           vegetation, and/or uses in the area or likely to exist in the area under the terms of
           the applicable base district and/or comprehensive plan. Considerations shall include
           but not be limited to, the following factors: similar height, color, bulk, and/or shape,
           or camouflage techniques to disguise the tower. This shall not preclude towers
           requiring FAA painting and/or marking from meeting those standards.
        g. This subsection B does not apply to small wireless support structures and small
           wireless facilities that meet the standards found in subsections C and D of this
           Section.
  C. General Standards for Small Wireless Support Structures and Small Wireless
     Facilities
     1. Small Wireless Support Structures
        a. Small wireless support structures shall not exceed the height limitation of forty-five
           feet (45’).
        b. Small wireless support structures that are over twenty feet (20’) tall and located
           within a utility easement or public right-of-way must be designed to allow for future
           arrangements of antennas and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights upon
           the small wireless support structure, to the extent reasonably feasible based upon
           construction, engineering, and design standards.
        c. Small wireless support structures shall be permitted within utility easements or
           public rights-of-way in accordance with the requirements of this Section.
        d. Single carrier small wireless support structures may be used within utility
           easements and public rights-of-way due to the height restrictions imposed by this
           Section.
        e. The replacement of pre-existing small wireless support structures shall be subject
           to all the same requirements as the construction of new small wireless support
           structures.
     2. Small Wireless Facilities
        a. Small wireless facilities located within utility easements or public rights-of-way are
           exempted from setback requirements.
        b. Small wireless facilities may extend up to ten feet (10’) above the height of a small
           wireless support structure.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 182
         c. Small wireless facilities may be mounted on a roof of a building only if the height
            of the small wireless facility at the highest point does not exceed the horizontal
            distance from the small wireless facility to the edge of the roof.
         d. Small wireless facilities shall be compatible with regard to similar height, color,
            bulk, and/or shape, and/or use of camouflage techniques.
  D. Application Requirements. The application materials shall include the following written
     documentation:
     1. Suitability Analysis of The Proposed Site. The analysis shall include, but is not
        limited to, the following:
         a. Description of the surrounding area within one mile of the subject site including
            topography; and
         b. For towers and/or associated facilities that do not meet the definition of small
            wireless support structures and small wireless facilities. Propagation charts
            showing existing and proposed transmission coverage at the subject site and within
            an area large enough to provide an understanding of why the facility needs to be
            placed at the chosen location.
         c. For towers and/or associated facilities that meet the definition of small wireless
            support structures and small wireless facilities. A map and written analysis
            describing existing and proposed transmission coverage.
     2. Facilities Not Meeting Definitions of Small Wireless Support Structures and
        Facilities. For towers and/or associated facilities that do not meet the definitions of
        small wireless support structures and small wireless facilities: if applicable, a signed
        lease agreement, relevant portions of which require the owner to remove the tower
        and/or associated facilities upon cessation of use.
     3. Facilities Meeting Definitions of Small Wireless Support Structures and Facilities.
        For towers and/or associated facilities that meet the definitions of small wireless
        support structures and small wireless facilities: if applicable, a signed lease agreement,
        master lease agreement or letter of authorization from the property owner or controlling
        entity that requires the owner to remove the tower and/or associated facilities upon
        cessation of use.
     4. Prior To Construction. Before construction of a small wireless support structure or
        small wireless facility commences in a utility easement or public right-of-way, the
        owner shall provide written evidence of a permit, license, or legal right or approval to
        use such structure or facility by the Ada County Highway District, other controlling
        entity, or the owner.
     5. Owners may submit consolidated applications for up to five (5) small wireless facilities
        being installed, modified, replaced, or collocated.
  E. Additional Application Requirements for Facilities That Require a Conditional Use
     Approval
     1. Engineering data showing that the tower is designed structurally, electrically, and in all
        other respects to accommodate both the equipment requested in the application and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 183
        comparable equipment for a minimum of one (1) additional user if the tower is over
        twenty feet (20') tall. If the tower is over one hundred ten feet (110') tall, it shall be
        designed structurally, electrically, and in all other respects to accommodate both the
        equipment requested in the application and comparable equipment for a minimum of
        two (2) additional users.
     2. A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer in the state of Idaho that
        describes the facility height and design (including a cross section and elevation);
        documents the height above grade for the recommended mounting position for
        collocated antennas and the minimum separation distances between antennas; describes
        the facility's capacity; and any other information necessary to evaluate the request. The
        report must include the engineer's stamp and registration number.
     3. A letter of intent committing the facility owner and successors to allow the shared use
        of the facility, as required by this Title, if additional users agree in writing to meet
        reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
     4. A map and written analysis demonstrating that the facility cannot be accommodated on
        an existing or approved tower within a two (2) mile radius.
     5. The Planning and Zoning Commission will issue a decision within one hundred fifty
        (150) days after submission of the application.
     6. It shall be the burden of the applicant or owner to demonstrate that the proposed facility
        cannot be accommodated on an approved tower or structure within the two (2) mile
        search radius due to one or more of the following reasons:
        a. Unwillingness of a property owner, or tower or facility owner to entertain shared
           use.
        b. The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the existing tower
           or structure, as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer in the
           state of Idaho, and the existing tower or structure cannot be reinforced, modified,
           or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a reasonable cost.
        c. The planned equipment would cause radio interference with material impacting the
           usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or structure, and the
           interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost as documented by a qualified
           and licensed professional engineer or other professional qualified to provide
           necessary documentation.
        d. Existing or approved towers or other structures within the search radius cannot
           accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to be commercially
           functional as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer or other
           professional qualified to provide necessary documentation.
        e. The proposed collocation with an existing tower or structure would be in violation
           of a local, State, or Federal law.
        f. Any other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to collocate upon an existing
           or approved tower or structure as documented by a qualified and licensed
           professional engineer, or other professional qualified to provide necessary
           documentation.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 184
             7. It shall be the burden of the owner to demonstrate that a good faith effort has been
                made to solicit the location of the proposed tower on federal, state, county, or city
                property when such property exists within the two (2) mile radius. Evidence of this
                shall include, at a minimum, copies of notices sent by certified mail, return receipt
                requested, to all federal, state, county or city property managers asking the
                possibility of locating the proposed tower on said property and requesting a written
                response within fifteen business days.
             8. It shall be the burden of the owner to demonstrate that a good faith effort has been
                made to solicit additional users for the proposed structure. Evidence of this shall
                include, at a minimum, copies of notices sent by certified mail, return receipt
                requested, to all other providers of cellular and wireless communications services
                within Ada County, advising of the intent to construct a new tower, identifying the
                location, inviting the joint use and sharing the costs, and requesting a written
                response within fifteen business days.
8-4-75:      Tower or Antenna Structure, Private
   A. The following regulations shall apply to tower structures for the purpose of private radio,
      television, or satellite reception and antennas for amateur radio. Towers are not subject to
      the accessory structure regulations of this Chapter.
   B. General Standards
          1. The tower or antenna structure is only for private, not commercial, use.
          2. The tower or antenna structure is accessory to a permitted or approved use.
          3. Verification of compliance with the regulations and requirements of the following
             agencies, as applicable, shall be provided:
             a. Federal Aviation Administration.
             b. Idaho Transportation Department (Bureau of Aeronautics).
             c. The City of Boise Airport Commission.
          4. An amateur radio tower for a licensed amateur radio operator that exceeds the height
             limit for structures in the applicable base district shall require accessory use approval
             by the Director. The applicant or owner must be a licensed amateur radio operator. Any
             other tower that exceeds the height limit for structures in the applicable base district
             shall require conditional use approval.
   C. Tower Construction Standards
          1. Within the Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas Overlay District, the height
             limit on the tower shall be as required by the Code of Federal Regulations 14 CFR 77.
          2. If the tower does not exceed the height limitations of the applicable base district, the
             tower shall meet the setback requirements of the district.
          3. If the tower exceeds the height limitation of the applicable base district, the following
             standards shall apply:
             a. The tower shall meet the setback requirements of the district, or it shall be set back
                one foot (1') for every ten feet (10') of total tower height from all property lines,

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 185
                 whichever is greater.
             b. A report shall be submitted from a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
                installed in accord with the manufacturer's specifications that describes the facility
                height and design (including a cross section and elevation). The report must include
                the engineer's stamp and registration number.
             c. A copy of the notice of construction filed with the Federal Aviation Administration
                (FAA) shall be provided.
             d. A fall zone for each tower shall be delineated and permanently restricted from
                future development, as follows:
                 1. The fall zone shall consist of the land area centered beneath the tower and
                    circumscribed by a circle with a radius equal to a length of one foot (1') for
                    every ten feet (10') of tower height.
                 2. If the fall zone does not lie completely within the subject property, a
                    nonrevocable easement shall be obtained from all owners of property within the
                    fall zone that prohibits the construction or placement of new structures within
                    the fall zone, except as may be specifically permitted through the conditional
                    use process. If an easement is utilized, a copy of the fully executed easement
                    agreement shall be submitted as part of the application.
          4. Towers not requiring FAA painting and/or marking shall have either a galvanized
             finish or painted with a non-contrasting blue, gray, or black finish.
8-4-76:      Transit Facility
   A. Generally. The master site plan shall designate sufficient areas to accommodate the
      maximum number of buses, vans, or other transit vehicles anticipated at any one time.
   B. Queuing. No queuing areas shall be located within required yards.
8-4-77:      Truck Stop
   A. Location. The use shall be located on a principal arterial that is within one thousand three
      hundred twenty feet (1,320') of an interstate interchange.
   B. Accessory Uses
          1. Accessory uses directly related to the maintenance and fueling of vehicles (including,
             but not limited to, truck and trailer washing, fuel pumps, garages for minor repair) may
             be allowed.
          2. Other accessory uses including, but not limited to, office, restaurant, and convenience
             retail, may be allowed if such facilities are completely within the truck stop facility.
   C. Installation. Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written approval from the
      Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water Resources, and
      the appropriate fire authority.
   D. Safe Haven Designation. If the truck stop has been designated a safe haven facility by the
      Board for Trucks Transporting Hazardous Materials, accessory sleeping quarters may be
      allowed.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 186
          1. Sleeping Quarters
             a. No more than ten (10) guest rooms shall be provided.
             b. No kitchen facilities shall be provided.
             c. Bathroom facilities may be provided.
8-4-78:      Vehicle Impound Yard
   A. Screening
          1. Outdoor storage areas and outdoor activity areas shall comply with the Outdoor Storage
             Area requirements of this Chapter, including a fence or wall and screening material ten
             feet (10’) tall.
          2. No portion of the vehicle impound yard outdoor storage areas and/or outdoor activity
             areas may be visible from any "highway," "interstate," "principal arterial," or "minor
             arterial" as herein defined.
          3. All materials or parts shall be stored and located within the fenced or walled area. No
             vehicles or materials shall be stored so they exceed the height of the fence or wall.
   B. Site Related Standards
          1. The use shall be located at least one thousand feet (1,000') from any residential district
             or residential use.
          2. No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a vehicle impound yard, any portion of
             which is within one thousand feet (1,000') of the nearest edge of the right-of-way and
             visible from any "highway," "interstate," "principal arterial," or "minor arterial" as
             herein defined.
8-4-79:      Vehicle Repair, Major; Minor; Vehicle Sales
   A. Generally. The use shall not constitute a junkyard as defined in Chapter 10 of this Title.
   B. Enclosure. All repair activities (including, but not limited to, open pits and lifts) shall occur
      within an enclosed structure.
   C. Outdoor Storage Area. Outdoor storage shall comply with the Outdoor Storage Area
      requirements of this Chapter.
   D. Landscaping and Screening
          1. Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a sight obscuring fence,
             wall, or screen or within an enclosed structure and shall not be visible from any street
             or private road.
          2. Automotive sales and rental areas (if permitted) are subject to the landscape and
             screening requirement of parking areas in Section 8-3-7.
8-4-80:      Winery
   A. Regulatory Compliance. The winery shall comply with all applicable State, Federal, and
      local regulations.
   B. Access. The property shall have access and frontage on a public road.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 187
   C. Tasting Rooms and Promotional Events. In zoning districts where a winery is a
      conditional use, tasting rooms and promotional events, such as but not limited to wine club
      events and winemakers’ dinners, may be allowed as part of the conditional use. A tasting
      room is only allowed on a property when part of a winery. Promotional events shall be
      limited to not more than twenty-four (24) small (fifty [50] guest maximum) events per year.


                                            CHAPTER 5
                                   SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-5-1:          GENERALLY
8-5-2:          ACCESS
8-5-3:          ALLEYS
8-5-4:          BLOCKS
8-5-5:          EASEMENTS
8-5-6:          FLOOD HAZARDS
8-5-7:          IMPROVEMENTS
8-5-8:          LOTS
8-5-9:          WATERCOURSES
8-5-1:      Generally
   A. Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to provide uniform standards for the subdivision
      of property, to protect property, and to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
      people of Ada County:
         1. To guide the future growth and development of the County in accordance with this
            Code, Comprehensive Plan, and all other County development related ordinances.
         2. To promote safety from fire, flood, and other danger.
         3. To ensure that public and private development are served by adequate public facilities
            and services with sufficient capacity for efficient transportation, water, sewer, drainage,
            and other public requirements and facilities, and that the development bears its fair
            share of the cost of providing the facilities and services.
         4. To provide for the circulation of pedestrians required for the beneficial use of land and
            buildings throughout the County.
         5. Working with partner transportation entities to ensure that traffic generated from the
            proposed development can be adequately and safely served by the existing and future
            street system.
         6. To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for platting to further the
            orderly layout and use of land and to promote proper legal descriptions and
            documenting of platted land.
         7. To minimize the pollution of streams and ponds; to provide for the adequacy of
            drainage facilities; to control stormwater runoff; to minimize erosion and siltation
            problems; to safeguard the water table; to encourage the wise use and management of
            natural resources; and enhance the stability and beauty of the community and the value


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 188
        of the land.
     8. To assure that sufficient parks and/or open spaces are provided to meet the recreational
        demands resulting from new residential development and to encourage measures for
        nonstructural flood control that will reduce the risk of flood damage for surrounding
        development.
     9. To remedy the problems associated with illegally subdivided lands and/or previously
        platted lands, including premature subdivision, incomplete subdivision, or scattered
        subdivision of land.
  B. Applicability
     1. Subdivision in Unincorporated Areas. This Chapter shall apply to the subdivision of
        all property within the unincorporated area of Ada County except by modification of
        Title 9 of this code.
     2. Unlawful
        a. It is unlawful to make a subdivision of property until the requirements of this
           Chapter are satisfied.
        b. No plat or any instrument passing title to any portion of a plat shall be offered for
           recording unless approved in accord with the regulations of this Title.
        c. No building permit shall be issued on any property being considered in the
           subdivision process until:
            1. The final plat has been recorded;
            2. Assessor's parcel numbers have been assigned; and
            3. All required public improvements have been constructed and approved by the
               appropriate authority or a surety agreement has been submitted to and approved
               by the Director.
        d. It is unlawful to reduce a property containing an approved distributed power facility
           containing a wind freestanding tower below the forty (40) acre minimum property
           size as of the effective date of this subsection. None of the exceptions listed in
           subsection 8-5-1B.3 below apply to those properties, except a "property reduced by
           governmental action" in accord with subsection 8-3-2M.
     3. Exceptions. The following divisions of property do not constitute a subdivision:
        a. A "property boundary adjustment" (see Section 8-6-23) and as defined in Chapter
           10, Definitions.
        b. An approved “one time division” (see Section 8-6-21).
        c. The division of property because of condemnation, as defined and allowed in the
           Idaho Code.
        d. The expansion or acquisition of street rights of way by a public highway agency.
        e. An approved farm development right in accord with Section 8-2-5 of this Title.
        f. Abutting parcels that qualify as an exception to the contiguous parcel regulation as


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 189
                set forth in subsection 8-3-2D.
            g. A "property reduced by governmental action" in accord with Section 8-3-2M.
   C. Subdivision Types. The three (3) subdivision types – preliminary plat, final plat, and
      combined preliminary and final plat – shall comply with this Chapter and follow the
      specifications, processes, and requirements established in Chapter 6.
8-5-2:      Access
   A. Generally
         1. All lots shall have access that complies with Section 8-3-3.
         2. The arrangement, character, extent, and location of all streets shall conform to the
            comprehensive plan or portions thereof and shall consider their relation to existing and
            planned streets, topographic conditions, and in their appropriate relation to the
            proposed uses of the property to be served by those streets.
         3. All required public street improvements and additional design standards are subject to
            the jurisdiction of the Ada County Highway District (ACHD) and the Idaho
            Transportation Department (ITD).
         4. Where a subdivision borders a railroad right of way or limited access highway right of
            way, a street approximately parallel to such right of way, at a distance suitable for
            appropriate use of the intervening property may be required.
         5. Street layout shall be planned to facilitate future development of abutting areas and the
            entire neighborhood and shall provide for adequate access to abutting lands.
8-5-3:      Alleys
   A. Generally. Alleys may be provided within approved Subdivisions.
   B. ACHD Compliance. Alleys shall comply with ACHD standards.
8-5-4:      Blocks
   A. Generally. The length, widths, and shapes of blocks are determined by:
         1. Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special needs of the type of use
            contemplated including the base district requirements as to property sizes and
            dimensions.
         2. Avoiding double front lots, not to include corner lots. If unavoidable, one of the
            frontages shall be restricted from access, unless approved by the Director.
         3. Needs for convenient access, circulation, control, and safety of street traffic.
         4. The limitations and opportunities of topography.
         5. Arranging lots within blocks or abutting a cul-de-sac.
   B. Standards
         1. Residential block lengths should range between four hundred feet (400') and six
            hundred feet (600'), unless the Director approves an alternative length based on
            consistency with adjacent streets, future land development patterns provided in the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 190
            comprehensive plan, to provide a lot configuration that better protects natural resources
            or agricultural land.
         2. Pedestrian access rights of way not less than ten feet (10') wide, may be required for
            walkways through or across a block when deemed desirable to provide circulation, or
            access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, and other community
            facilities. That access right of way shall be located within an easement or on a
            separately platted lot.
8-5-5:      Easements
   A. The subdivision plat shall provide easements for utilities, drainage, and irrigation abutting
      to all public street right of way and subdivision boundaries, and where considered
      necessary, centered on the interior property lines.
   B. Those easements shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10').
   C. Where a subdivision is transversed by a watercourse, appropriate easements shall be
      provided.
8-5-6:      Flood Hazards. Proposed subdivisions in a flood hazard overlay district shall comply
            with the requirements of the Flood Hazard Overlay District regulations.
8-5-7:     Improvements
   A. Owner’s Responsibility. The owner shall complete the improvements required by this
      Section and any additional improvements required as a condition of approval.
   B. Monument Requirements. The owner shall comply with the requirements of Idaho Code
      Title 50, Chapter 13 Plats and Vacations Sections 50-1302 (Duty to File), 50-1303 (Survey-
      Monuments-Accuracy), Title 54, Chapter 12 Engineers and Surveyors, Section 54-1227
      (Surveys-Authority and Duties of Professional Land Surveyors and Professional
      Engineers), and Title 55, Chapter16 Corner Perpetuation and Filing, Section 55-1608
      (Professional Land Surveyor to Establish or Rehabilitate Monuments).
   C. Streets and other Improvements. The owner shall fulfill the following requirements (as
      applicable) before the final plat is signed:
         1. Public streets shall be accepted by the Ada County Highway District.
         2. Approved private roads shall be completed and comply with the requirements in this
            Title.
         3. All new developments shall have adequate sewage facilities as provided for in Section
            8-3-5 or the plat shall have a sanitary restriction approved by the appropriate health
            authority.
         4. Stormwater facilities and drainage improvements shall be constructed and approved by
            the County Engineer.
         5. Streetlights shall comply with the lighting regulations established in this Title.
   D. Surety and Surety Agreement. See Section 8-3-5.
8-5-8:      Lots



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 191
   A. Generally. Except as otherwise permitted by this Code, every building shall be located on
      a lot.
   B. Standards. The property size, width, depth, shape, and orientation, and the minimum
      structure setback lines shall be appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the
      type of development and use contemplated.
       1. The minimum dimensional standards for all lots shall comply with the applicable base
          district.
       2. Corner lots in residential zoning districts shall increase five percent (5%) above the
          minimum property size of the applicable base district to permit appropriate front and
          street side setbacks.
       3. For a distance of fifty feet (50'), side property lines originating at the front of the lot
          shall be within twenty degrees (20°) of right angles or radial to the street providing
          access.
       4. Through lots shall be avoided except to separate developments from arterial streets or
          to overcome topographic restrictions.
          a. A screening easement or common area lot having a minimum width of ten feet (10')
             shall be provided along the arterial streets.
          b. If unavoidable, one of the frontages shall be restricted from access.
       5. Frontage for lots on a cul-de-sac turnaround is measured fifty feet (50') back from the
          front property line along an arc parallel to the right of way of the cul-de-sac (see Figure
          8-5-8-1 below).

Figure 8-5-8-1 Cul-de-sac frontage




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 192
         6. Frontage for lots on a knuckle shall be measured fifty feet (50') back from the front
            property line along the arc parallel to the right of way of the knuckle. See Figure 8-5-
            8-1 Cul-de-sac frontage.
8-5-9:      Watercourses
   A. Generally
         1. There shall be a minimum structural setback of thirty feet (30') from the normal high-
            water line of all watercourses, whether covered or uncovered.
         2. For open watercourses, normal high-water line shall be as determined by a licensed
            surveyor or engineer.
   B. Requirements. Only when required by the Board shall watercourses be covered or fenced.
         1. Proposed fences shall comply with Section 8-3-6.
         2. Proposed fences in a designated flood hazard area shall comply with Section 8-2-28.
         3. Unless otherwise specified by this Title, fences shall be a six-foot (6') barrier that meets
            the barrier requirements for swimming pools in the Ada County Building Code as set
            forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
         4. Proposed covers or fences involving an irrigation distribution system shall have the
            prior approval of the affected irrigation district.


                                             CHAPTER 6
                                           PROCEDURES
SECTION:
8-6-1:          PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
8-6-2:          DEVELOPMENT REVIEW SUMMARY TABLE
8-6-3:          PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE
8-6-4:          NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS
8-6-5:          APPLICATION SUBMITTAL COMPLETENESS
8-6-6:          DIRECTOR REVIEW
8-6-7:          COMMON DECISION REQUIREMENTS
8-6-8:          NOTICE
8-6-9:          PUBLIC MEETINGS AND HEARINGS
8-6-10:         TIME EXTENSION
8-6-11:         ACCESSORY USES
8-6-12:         ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE
8-6-13:         APPEAL
8-6-14:         COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT (MAP OR TEXT)
8-6-15:         CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT
8-6-16:         CONSOLIDATION
8-6-17:         DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
8-6-18:         FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
8-6-19:         MASTER SITE PLAN
8-6-20:         MINOR MODIFICATION OF AN APPROVED MASTER SITE PLAN


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 193
8-6-21:       ONE TIME DECISION
8-6-22:       PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
8-6-23:       PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT
8-6-24:       SIGN PERMIT
8-6-25:       SUBDIVISION PLATS – GENERALLY
8-6-26:       SUBDIVISION PLATS – PRELIMINARY PLAT
8-6-27:       SUBDIVISION PLATS – FINAL PLAT
8-6-28:       SUBDIVISION PLATS – COMBINED PRELIMINARY-FINAL PLAT
8-6-29:       TEMPORARY USE PERMIT
8-6-30:       VACATION
8-6-31:       VARIANCE
8-6-32:       ZONING CERTIFICATE
8-6-33:       ZONING ORDINANCE MAP AMENDMENT
8-6-34:       ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT
8-6-1:     Purpose and Applicability
   A. Purpose. This Chapter establishes rules for procedures, including pre-application
      meetings, neighborhood meetings, public notice, and public hearings. In addition, it
      describes the process for specific applications. The procedures have a common workflow
      and description, as identified in Table 8-6-1-1.
   B. Applicability. This Chapter applies to any application for development approval
      (“applications”) in the County.

Table 8-6-1-1 Common Procedural Elements

              Element What this Means
          Applicability The type of development or situation that is subject to the process.
             Initiation This is how the application process begins, including which department
                        or official receives the application.
          Completeness This is how Ada County determines that the application has sufficient
                        information to be processed.
                Notice This describes the type of notice, and how it is provided.
              Decision This states who approves the application, and the type of
                        proceeding that leads to the decision.
             Required These are any specific findings of fact that pertain to the approval of
              Findings an application.
              Appeals This provides a way to review an application that is approved, denied,
                        or that have conditions with which the applicant, owner, or an affected
                        person disagree.
              Scope of This indicates what activity the application authorizes. For example,
             Approval some approvals send the application to the next step in the overall
                        process, while others authorize construction or use.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 194
8-6-2:        Development Review Summary Table
   A. Generally. Table 8-6-2-1 summarizes the land use and development applications and
      procedures in this Zoning Ordinance and identifies the bodies that have review and
      decision-making responsibilities. Any application submitted jointly with another
      application that requires noticing and/or a public hearing shall concurrently be noticed
      and/or go to public hearing.

Table 8-6-2-1 Development Review Summary Table

                                                         Development Review Summary Table
                                Key |  = Required | R = Review and Recommendation | D = Decision
         Application Type ↓                              Requirement                                  Authority
                                         Pre-       Neighborhood Noticing       Public    Director   Planning &   Board
                                      application      Meeting                 Hearing                 Zoning
                                      Conference                                                     Commission
   Accessory Use Permit –                                                                   D
   Administrative Approval
   (8-6-11)
   Alternative Compliance                                                             D
   (8-6-12)



   Appeal (8-6-13)                                                                                           D

   Area of City Impact                                                                             R         D
   Amendment (See Title 9)
   Combined Preliminary & Final                                                                  R         D
   Plat (8-6-25 and 8-6-28)
   Comprehensive Plan                                                                            R         D
   Land Use Map
   Amendment
   (8-6-14)
   Comprehensive Plan                                                                             R         D
   Text Amendment
   (8-6-14)
   Conditional Use Permit                                                                        D
   (8-6-15)


   Consolidation (8-6-16)                                                                D

   Development Agreement                                                                           R         D
   (8-6-17)
   Expansion/Extension of a                                                            D
   Nonconforming Use or
   Structure (8-7-2)
   Farm Development Right                                                                D
   (8-2-5)

   Final Plat (8-6-25 and 8-6-27)                                                                              D

   Floodplain Permit (8-6-12)                                                            D




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 195
                                                         Development Review Summary Table
                                Key |  = Required | R = Review and Recommendation | D = Decision
      Application Type ↓                                 Requirement                                  Authority
                                         Pre-       Neighborhood Noticing       Public    Director   Planning &   Board
                                      application      Meeting                 Hearing                 Zoning
                                      Conference                                                     Commission
  Hillside Development                                                                   D
  Permit (8-2-30)
  Landscape and Screening                                                                D
  (8-3-7)
  Lighting (8-3-8)                                                                       D

  Master Site Plan (8-6-19)                                                             D
  Modification/Expansion of                                                              D
  a Master Site Plan (8-6-19)
  Modification/Expansion of                                                                        D
  a Conditional Use (8-6-19)
  Minor Modification/Expansion                                                           D
  of a Conditional Use (8-6-20)
  One Time Division (8-6-21)                                                                         D

  Planned Community                                                                              R         D
  Comprehensive Plan                                  (Scoping
  Amendment (8-12-7)                                  Session)
  Planned Community                                                                              R         D
  Implementation Plan                                 (Scoping
  (8-12-8)                                            Session)
  Planned Unit Development (8-6-                                                 
  22)


  Preliminary Plat (8-6-25 and 8-6-                                                              R         D
  26)

  Private Road (8-3-11)                                                                 D
  Property Boundary                                                                      D
  Adjustment (8-6-23)
  Sign Permit (8-6-24)                                                                   D

  Temporary Use Permit –                                                                 D
  Zoning Certificate Only
  (8-6-29)
  Temporary Use Permit –                                                                D
  Administrative Approval
  (8-6-29)
  Time Extension –                                                                       D
  Administrative Approval (8-6-
  11)


  Time Extension – Board                                                                                     D
  Approval
  (8-6-11)
  Vacation (8-6-30)                                                                                         D




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 196
                                                          Development Review Summary Table
                                 Key |  = Required | R = Review and Recommendation | D = Decision
         Application Type ↓                               Requirement                                  Authority
                                          Pre-       Neighborhood Noticing       Public    Director   Planning &   Board
                                       application      Meeting                 Hearing                 Zoning
                                       Conference                                                     Commission
   Variance (8-6-31)                                                                                        D
   Zoning Certificate (8-6-32)                                                            D
   Zoning Ordinance Map                                                                           R         D
   Amendment
   (8-6-33)
   Zoning Ordinance Text                                                                          R         D
   Amendment (8-6-34)


8-6-3:        Pre-Application Conference
   A. Purpose. The purpose of a pre-application conference is to review the proposed
      application(s), to discuss the procedures and requirements of this Title, and to review the
      associated application material.
   B. Applicability. See Table 8-6-2-1 for applications that require a pre-application conference.
   C. Requirements
         1. At least one pre-application conference with the Director is required before submitting
            the application.
         2. The Director and the applicant and/or owner shall attend the pre-application
            conference. The Ada County Engineer, Surveyor, or Building Official may also attend
            the pre-application conference(s).
8-6-4:        Neighborhood Meetings
   A. Purpose. The purpose of the neighborhood meeting is for the applicant and/or owner to
      provide an opportunity for the public to review the proposed project. Neighborhood
      meetings must occur in-person or virtually with Director approval.
   B. Applicability. See Table 8-6-2-1 for applications that require a neighborhood meeting.
   C. Notice
         1. The applicant and/or owner shall provide written notice to all property owners or
            purchasers of record owning property within the radius required in Section 8-6-8 of the
            exterior boundary of the application property and to all registered neighborhood
            associations covering areas within the notification area.
         2. Notice of a neighborhood meeting is in addition to, and not in lieu of, mailed radius
            notices required by this Title. However, when notice of a neighborhood meeting is
            required of two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record,
            alternate forms of notice may be provided in accord with Section 8-6-8 of this Title.
         3. The applicant and/or owner shall send the notice at least seven (7) days before the
            meeting.
   D. Meeting Requirements. Neighborhood meeting shall be held in-person and be at least


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 197
         one (1) hour in length except as provided below.
         1. In-Person Meetings
            a. The meeting shall occur on a:
                1. Weekend between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.; or
                2. Weekday between six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
            b. The meeting shall not occur on a holiday, a holiday weekend, or the day before a
               holiday or holiday weekend.
            c. The meeting shall occur at one of the following locations:
                1. On the subject property;
                2. At the nearest available public meeting place such as a fire station, library, or
                   community center; or
                3. At an office space with suitable meeting facilities if those facilities are within a
                   one-mile radius of the nearest public meeting place.
         2. Virtual Meetings
            a. The applicant and/or owner may request the Director to allow the neighborhood
               meeting to occur virtually. The Director may approve the request upon determining
               that there is good cause for holding the meeting virtually. Reasons that substantiate
               a good cause determination include, but are not limited to, illness of a participant,
               special needs of a participant, or public health orders are in effect.
            b. Notice of virtual meetings requires notices to include sufficient information so the
               public may attend via the remote/virtual means.
            c. The meeting shall occur on a:
                1. Weekend between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.; or
                2. Weekday between six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
            d. The meeting shall not occur on a holiday, a holiday weekend, or the day before a
               holiday or holiday weekend.
   E. Timing. The neighborhood meeting shall occur prior to the application submission. The
      neighborhood meeting shall not occur more than six (6) months prior to the application
      submission.
   F. Disclosure. The application materials shall include a written verification of the
      neighborhood meeting.
8-6-5:      Application Submittal Completeness
   A. Application Submittal
         1. The application is submitted when the applicant and/or owner submits the appropriate
            application form, the appropriate fees, and all information listed as required on the
            application form and applicable checklist(s) to the Development Services Department.
         2. The application must clearly indicate compliance with the applicable development


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 198
            standards. A request for a variance or modification to certain standards shall also
            indicate the application’s degree of noncompliance.
   B. Initiation. The Director shall review and process complete applications. The Director will
      not review or process incomplete applications.
   C. Complete Determination. An application that is determined complete is processed using
      the procedures established in this Chapter.
   D. Incomplete Determination. If an application is determined incomplete, the Director shall
      provide notice to the applicant and/or owner along with an explanation of the application's
      deficiencies. No further processing of an incomplete application will occur until the
      deficiencies are corrected in a future re-submittal.
   E. Additional Information. The County will receive any supplemental technical reports and
      special studies that are submitted after the original application is filed at least thirty (30)
      days prior to the first application hearing. The County may postpone and reschedule a
      hearing or approval deadline if those reports and studies are submitted less than thirty (30)
      days prior to a hearing. Copies of additional materials are delivered to all reviewers who
      received the original application packet.
8-6-6:      Director Review
   A. Review. Once an application is determined complete, the Director will review all necessary
      application materials to verify that the application complies with the applicable regulations
      established in this Zoning Ordinance and any other applicable ordinances and codes.
   B. Decision. Following the submission of an application, the Director will act upon the
      application within sixty (60) days. Failure of the Director to act upon an application is
      considered a denial or recommendation of denial of the application.
8-6-7:      Common Decision Requirements
   A. Generally
         1. All applications shall comply with all applicable standards in this Zoning Ordinance.
         2. The decision-making body may impose conditions reasonably calculated to achieve or
            maintain compliance with all applicable criteria.
         3. The decision-making body may incorporate or require, as part of a condition of
            approval, a written agreement between the applicant and/or owner and the County that
            enforces the conditions.
   B. Default Criteria
         1. Generally. Unless otherwise specified, County review and decision-making bodies
            shall review all development applications submitted pursuant to this Chapter for
            compliance with the general review criteria stated below. The application may also be
            subject to additional review criteria specific to the type of application, as stated below.
            If there is a conflict between the general review criteria in this Section and the specific
            review criteria in Chapters 2 – 5, the specific review criteria controls.
         2. Prior Approvals. The application shall comply with the terms and conditions of any
            currently effective prior plan or plat approval. This includes an approved phasing plan


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 199
        for development and installation of public improvements and amenities.
     3. Consideration of the Comprehensive Plan and Other Applicable Plans. The
        application shall consider the Comprehensive Plan and any applicable development
        policy plan. The decision-making authority:
        a. Shall weigh competing plan goals, policies, and strategies; and
        b. May approve an application that provides a public benefit even if the development
           is contrary to some of the goals, policies, or strategies in the Comprehensive Plan
           or other applicable plans.
     4. Compliance with Development and Use Standards. The application shall comply
        with all applicable standards, unless the standard is lawfully modified, varied, or
        waived.
     5. Compliance with Other Applicable Regulations. The proposed development shall
        comply with all other County regulations and all applicable regulations, standards,
        requirements, or plans of the federal or state governments and other relevant
        jurisdictions. This includes wetlands, water quality, erosion control, and wastewater
        regulations.
     6. Compliance with Interlocal Agreements. The proposed development shall comply
        with any adopted interlocal agreements and meet the terms and conditions of any
        interlocal agreements incorporated by reference into this Zoning Ordinance.
     7. Compliance with Utility, Service, and Improvement Standards. The proposed
        development shall comply with Federal, State, service district, County and other
        regulatory authority standards, and design/construction specifications for roads, access,
        drainage, water, sewer, schools, emergency/fire protection, and similar standards.
     8. Phasing Plan. If the application involves phases, each phase of the development shall
        contain all of the required streets, utilities, landscaping, dedicated open space, and other
        improvements that are required to comply with the project’s cumulative development
        to date, and shall not depend upon subsequent phases for those improvements.
  C. Substantial Compliance
     1. The decision-making body may approve an applicable permit or plan subject to Chapter
        6 if it substantially complies with the applicable approval criteria.
     2. Unless a specific permit or process establishes different criteria, a permit or plan
        substantially complies with the applicable approval criteria if the proposed use or
        development does not:
        a. Exceed any dimensional or numerical criteria by more than twenty-five percent
           (25%);
        b. Alter the basic relationship of the proposed development to adjacent property;
        c. Change the uses permitted;
        d. Increase the maximum density, floor area ratio, or height;
        e. Decrease the amount of required off street parking;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 200
        f. Reduce the minimum yards required at the boundary of the site.
        g. Increase the number of buildable lots; or
        h. Decrease dedicated open space acreage.
     3. Deviations greater than twenty-five percent (25%) of any dimensional standard are not
        considered substantial compliance, unless required by a public highway agency, public
        utility, or federal or state agency.
     4. If the number of buildable lots increases or there is an overall reduction in the amount
        of open space, the final plat is not in substantial compliance with the preliminary plat.
        If the Director determines there is a substantial difference in the final plat versus the
        approved preliminary plat or conditions were not met, the Director may recommend
        the Board require the submittal of a new preliminary plat.
  D. Decision Requirements by Decision Making Body
     1. Director
        a. The Director may require conditions of approval that are deemed necessary to
           protect the public health, safety, and welfare and prevent undue adverse impacts on
           surrounding properties.
        b. The Director shall provide the applicant and/or owner written findings of fact and
           conclusions of law in accord with Idaho Code Sections 67-6519 and 67-6535
           stating the reasons for the decision reached. All conditions of approval shall be
           attached to the written decision.
     2. The Commission
        a. The Commission may require or recommend conditions of approval that it deems
           necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and/or to prevent undue
           adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
        b. The Commission shall provide the applicant and/or owner written findings of fact
           and conclusions of law in accord with Idaho Code Sections 67-6519 and 67-6535
           stating the reasons for the decision or recommendation reached. Conditions of
           approval shall be attached to the written decision or recommendation. For
           applications where the Commission is acting as a recommending body, the
           Commission shall forward their recommendation to the Board.
        c. For applications where a decision or recommendation is required by this Title, the
           Commission shall file a written report with the clerk of the Board stating the
           findings and action taken by the Commission. Such report shall be filed no later
           than ten (10) days after the written decision or recommendation.
     3. The Board
        a. The Board may require conditions of approval that it deems necessary to protect
           the public health, safety, and welfare and/or to prevent undue adverse impacts on
           surrounding properties. This regulation shall not apply to applications for
           comprehensive plan amendments or zoning ordinance amendments.
        b. The Board shall provide the applicant and/or owner written findings of fact and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 201
                conclusions of law in accord with Idaho Code Sections 67-6519 and 67-6535
                stating the reasons for the decision. Conditions of approval, if any, shall be attached
                to the written decision.
            c. The Board shall adopt resolutions adopting the amendments to the comprehensive
               plan.
            d. The Board shall adopt zoning ordinance amendments and within thirty (30) days,
               publish a summary of the ordinance in the official newspaper of general circulation
               in the County.
         4. Hearings Examiner
            a. The Hearings Examiner may require or recommend conditions of approval that it
               deems necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and/or to prevent
               undue adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
            b. The Hearings Examiner shall provide the applicant and/or owner written findings
               of fact and conclusions of law in accord with Idaho Code Sections 67-6519 and 67-
               6535 stating the reasons for the decision or recommendation reached. Conditions
               of approval shall be attached to the written decision or recommendation. For
               applications where the Hearings Examiner is acting as a recommending body, the
               Hearings Examiner shall forward their recommendation to the Board.
            c. For applications where a decision or recommendation is required by this Title, the
               Hearings Examiner shall file a written report with the clerk of the Board stating the
               findings and action taken by the Hearings Examiner. Such report shall be filed no
               later than ten (10) days after the written decision or recommendation.
8-6-8:      Notice
   A. Agencies, Political Subdivisions, and Property Owners Notice
         1. The Director shall send a summary of development applications that require public
            notice to adjacent property owners, applicable agencies, and political subdivisions as
            determined by the Director. The notice is sent at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
            public hearing (See Table 8-6-2-1).
         2. The Director shall send a summary of petitions for comprehensive plan amendments
            and applications for zoning ordinance amendments to adjacent property owners,
            applicable agencies, and political subdivisions as referenced in Idaho Code Section 67-
            6509(a). The notice is sent at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing.
         3. Noticing for applications within an area of city impact follow Title 9 of this Code.
         4. Notice shall also be given to a pipeline company operating any existing interstate
            natural gas transmission pipeline or interstate petroleum products pipeline, as
            recognized by the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration, with a center
            point within one thousand feet (1,000’) of the external boundaries of land being
            considered for a development application, provided that the pipeline company is in
            compliance with Section 62-1104, Idaho Code.
   B. Public Notice



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 202
     1. Legal Notice. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the Director shall
        publish a notice of the time and place and a summary of the application in the official
        newspaper of general circulation in the County.
     2. Site Notice. At least ten (10) days prior to the public hearing, the applicant and/or
        owner shall post a notice on the property, which is the subject of the application, except
        for zoning ordinance text amendments or comprehensive plan amendments. The notice
        shall comply with the sign posting requirements established in this Section.
     3. Radius Notice. At least seven (7) days prior to the public hearing, the Director shall
        send a notice of the time and place, and a summary of the application to property
        owners or purchasers of record (as listed in the current records of Ada County) owning
        property within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the property
        upon which the application is considered. The Director may send notices to property
        owners or purchasers of record whose properties are farther than the required minimum
        radius.
        a. The following applications require notice within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
           property being considered:
            1. Any application located in a rural district.
            2. Any application for the following uses:
                a. Adult Entertainment Establishment
                b. Airport (Public Ownership)
                c. Bar, Brewpub, or Nightclub
                d. Distributed Power Facility, Wind Rooftop
                e. Explosive Manufacturing or Storage
                f. Flammable Substance Storage
                g. Foundry
                h. Junkyard or Automobile Wrecking Yard
                i. Manufacture or Processing of Hazardous Chemicals or Gases
                j. Meatpacking/Slaughterhouse Facility
                k. Pit, Mine, or Quarry Requiring Administrative or Conditional Use Approval
                l. Processing Plant for Agricultural and Dairy Products
                m. Public or Quasi-Public Use, Public or Private Correctional Facility
                n. Racetrack
                o. Sanitary Landfill, Restricted
                p. Sawmill or Planing Mill
                q. Soil or Water Remediation
                r. Tannery
                s. Tower or Antenna Structure, Commercial
                t. Vehicle Impound Yard
        b. The following uses require notice within two thousand six hundred forty feet
           (2,640') of the property being considered:
            1. Centralized Power Facility
            2. Distributed Power Facility, Wind Freestanding Tower



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 203
            3. Livestock Confinement Facilities with Three Hundred One (301) or More
               Animal Units
        c. Requests for exceptions to height limitations proposed as part of a conditional use
           application require compliance with the following additional notification distances
           along with any additional area that may be substantially impacted as determined by
           the Commission:
            1. Notice to all property owners or purchasers of record within one thousand two
               hundred feet (1,200') is required if any proposed architectural feature and/or
               structure height is greater than one hundred feet (100’) and less than four
               hundred feet (400’).
            2. If the proposed architectural feature and/or structure height is four hundred feet
               (400’) or greater, notice to all property owners and purchasers of record within
               five thousand two hundred eighty feet (5,280’) is required.
            3. If this subsection applies, the notice shall identify the feature location and
               proposed height.
     4. Alternate Forms of Notice
        a. When notice is required of two hundred (200) or more property owners or
           purchasers of record, alternate forms of notice may be provided as follows:
            1. Instead of mailed notice, the County may publish one additional notice of the
               time and place of the hearing and summary of the proposal in a newspaper of
               general circulation within the County, at least seven (7) days prior to the
               hearing.
            2. At least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the applicant and/or owner shall post
               a hearing notice on the property following the sign posting requirements of this
               Section.
            3. At least seven (7) days prior to the hearing, the County shall make available a
               notice to other newspapers, radio, and television stations servicing the County
               for use as a public service announcement.
     5. Public Service Announcement. For amendments to this Title and the Comprehensive
        Plan, the Director shall issue a notice to other newspapers and radio and television
        stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement prior to the
        public hearing.
     6. Sign Posting Requirements
        a. Posting of Hearing Notice on Property. At least ten (10) days prior to the
           scheduled Ada County Planning and Zoning Commission and/or the Board of Ada
           County Commissioners hearing(s), the applicant and/or owner shall post a sign
           containing the notice of hearing of the application on the property under
           consideration. The posting of the property must comply with the following
           requirements:
            1. Sign Requirements. All installed signs shall comply with the following
               standards:


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 204
              a. Number of Signs
                 i.   General Standards. One sign is posted on the subject property to be
                      visible from each roadway that is adjacent to it, excluding Interstate 84.
                      If the property being considered has roadway frontage of one thousand
                      two hundred fifty feet (1,250') or more, a sign is placed at each end of
                      the property roadway frontage.
               ii.    Standards For Electric Transmission Line Corridors/Substations.
                      For electric transmission line corridors running parallel to a roadway, a
                      sign is posted at each end of the corridor along the roadway frontage
                      and at each arterial intersection. For electric transmission line corridors
                      not running parallel to a roadway, signs are posted on both sides of the
                      roadway where the corridor intersects a roadway. For electric
                      substations, signs are posted on site.
              b. Placement. Where the property fronts an intersection of two (2) roadways,
                 then the sign(s) is not posted in the clear vision triangle as set forth in this
                 Title. The sign(s) is located on the property, outside of the public right of
                 way. If the sign(s) cannot be placed on the property and still be clearly
                 visible, the sign(s) may be placed within the right of way if the applicant
                 and/or owner can obtain the consent of the owner of the right of way. For
                 an appeal by a person (other than the original applicant and/or owner) of an
                 administrative or Commission decision, the appellant may place the sign on
                 the right of way with the permission of the owner of the right of way.
              c. Size and Materials
                 i.   The sign(s) shall consist of four-foot by four-foot (4' x 4') plywood or
                      other hard surface mounted on two (2) four-inch by four-inch (4" x 4")
                      posts or attached to another Director approved support.
               ii.    For an application for a subdivision plat, variance, rezone, or vacation
                      for property less than three (3) acres in size, any application where the
                      applicant and/or owner is a federal, state, county or municipal
                      government, a utility company or corporation under the jurisdiction of
                      the Idaho Public Utilities Commission, or an appeal of an administrative
                      or a Commission decision to the Board, the sign(s) may consist of
                      eleven-inch by seventeen-inch (11" x 17") yellow laminated paper or
                      similar material mounted to a rigid surface of equal size and attached to
                      a Director approved support.
               iii.   The bottom of the sign shall lie at least three feet (3') above the grade
                      elevation at the base of the sign structure or street elevation to which the
                      sign(s) is oriented, whichever is higher.
              d. Wording. The following shall be centered at the top of the sign(s): "ADA
                 COUNTY PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE." In addition, each sign will state
                 whether it is for the Ada County Planning and Zoning Commission or the
                 Board of Ada County Commissioners, the date, time and address of the
                 hearing location, a summary of the proposal to be considered, the property


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 205
                      size and location of the development, the name of the applicant, project
                      number, planner name and phone number. Each four- foot by four-foot (4'
                      x 4') sign shall be white on both sides and the letters shall be black and
                      appear on both sides. An example of the required sign specification is set
                      forth in Table 8-6-8-1 Notice Sign Specifications with the letter size
                      required for a four-foot by four-foot (4' x 4') sign:

Table 8-6-8-1 Notice Sign Specifications

                                                      Notice Sign Specifications
                                           Size               Required Information
                                       6 inches    ADA COUNTY PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE
                                       2 inches    Ada County Planning and Zoning Commission
                                      1.5 inches   WHEN: ADA COUNTY will hold a public
                                                   hearing on September 28, 2008, at 6:00 p.m. in the
                                                   Commissioners Main Hearing Room #1235, on
                                                   the first floor, 200 W. Front Street, Boise, ID.
                                      1.5 inches   PURPOSE: A Preliminary Plat for (You-Name-It-
                                                   Subdivision) to include 28 residential lots and 4
                                                   common lots, a Zoning Ordinance Map
                                                   Amendment from Southwest Community
                                                   Residential (RSW) District to Medium Low
                                                   Density (R4) District, a Property Boundary
                                                   Adjustment, and a Development Agreement.
                                      1.5 inches   PROPERTY SIZE/LOCATION: The property
                                                   contains approximately 14.50 acres and is located
                                                   on the south side of W. Any Where Drive,
                                                   approximately 1/2 mile south of E. You Tell Us
                                                   Road, Boise, ID; Section 26, T. 3N., R. 1E.
                                      1.5 inches   APPLICATION BY: Average citizen, USA, Inc.
                                      1.5 inches   PROJECT NUMBER/PLANNER
                                                   NAME/PLANNER PHONE NUMBER:
                                                   200801123-S-ZC-PBA-DA/Jane Doe/287-0000.


                  e. Separation Requirements from Utility Power Lines. Signs shall maintain
                     horizontal and vertical clearance of all overhead electrical conductors in
                     accordance with national electrical safety code specifications, as reviewed
                     and determined by the local power company. Applicants and/or owners are
                     required to contact the local electric company before erecting a sign nearer
                     than twenty-five feet (25') to electric power lines. No sign shall be placed
                     within a power line easement without approval of the holder of the
                     easement.
                  f. Sign Maintenance and Repair. All signs shall maintain a state of good
                     appearance, security, safety and repair during the hearing process.
                  g. Proof of Posting. The applicant and/or owner shall submit a certification of


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 206
                        sign posting and dated photograph of each sign(s) posted to the Director no
                        later than seven (7) days prior to the public hearing. The Development
                        Services Department shall provide the certification form, which shall
                        contain all the required information. The hearing may be tabled if the
                        certification is not filed in a timely manner.
                    h. Sign Removal. No later than three (3) days after the applicant and/or owner
                       receives a final decision on the application, the sign(s) must be removed.
                       Failure to remove signs shall be a violation of this Title and subject to the
                       penalties of this Title.
8-6-9:      Public Meetings and Hearings
   A. Purpose. This Section provides a procedure by which the Board or the Commission shall
      conduct hearings.
   B. Planning and Zoning Commission Hearings
         1. Generally
            a. The Commission shall conduct the public hearing in accord with its adopted
               bylaws.
            b. The Commission may continue the hearing if it determines in its discretion that
               additional hearings are necessary.
            c. The Commission will hold a hearing on each submitted application for which a
               hearing is required within ninety (90) days (or one hundred twenty [120] days for
               planned community applications) after application submission.
            d. The Commission will issue a decision or recommendation, as is applicable, no later
               than one hundred eighty (180) days (or two hundred forty [240] days for planned
               community applications); and one hundred fifty (150) days for the siting of a tower
               or antenna structure, after the date of the application submission.
            e. Failure of the Commission to issue a decision or recommendation within the time
               periods allowed in this Chapter is considered a denial or a recommendation of
               denial of the application. However, the Commission and applicant may mutually
               agree in writing to extend the time periods for a decision to be made.
         2. Planned Communities. The Commission shall not conduct a public hearing on a
            planned community implementation plan until the Board has approved the planned
            community subarea comprehensive plan. The period for issuing a decision described
            in Section 8-6-6 of this Section does not commence until the Board approves the
            planned community subarea comprehensive plan.
         3. Public notice pursuant to Section 8-6-8 of this Chapter is required prior to the public
            hearing.
   C. Board Hearings
         1. The Board will hold a hearing within ninety (90) days after application submission or
            ninety (90) days after the Commission makes a recommendation (if applicable).
         2. For planned community applications for which the Board must hold a hearing, the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 207
        Board will hold a hearing no later than one hundred twenty (120) days after the date
        the Commission makes a recommendation. The Board will not hold a hearing on a
        planned community implementation plan until the Board approves the planned
        community subarea comprehensive plan.
     3. Public notice shall be provided as set forth in Section 8-6-8 of this Chapter prior to the
        public hearing.
     4. Following the public hearing, if the Board makes a material change to a comprehensive
        plan amendment application or zoning ordinance amendment application, further
        notice and hearing shall be provided pursuant to Section 8-6-8 of this Chapter, and with
        applicable agreements in Title 9 of the County Code.
     5. The Board may continue the hearing if it determines in its discretion that additional
        hearings are necessary.
  D. Hearings Examiner
     1. For those applications for which a hearing examiner may be used, the hearings
        examiner shall hold a hearing within ninety (90) days after an application is submitted
        to the Director.
        a. Public notice shall be provided as set forth in Section 8-6-8 of this Chapter prior to
           the public hearing.
        b. The hearing examiner may continue the hearing if it determines in its discretion
           that additional hearings are necessary.
     2. Action. The hearing examiner shall issue a decision or recommendation, as applicable,
        no later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date the application was submitted
        to the Director. Failure of the hearing examiner to issue a decision or recommendation
        within the time periods allowed in this Section is deemed a denial or a recommendation
        of denial of the application.
     3. Decision. The hearings examiner shall provide the applicant and/or owner a written
        decision in accordance with Idaho Code Sections 67-6520 and 67-6535 stating the
        reasons for the decision. Conditions of approval, if any, shall be attached to the written
        decision.
  E. Conduct of Hearing. Hearings before the Board, Commission, or the Hearing Examiner
     shall generally conform to the following procedure:
     1. Generally. The Board, Commission, or the Hearing Examiner may require any person
        to be sworn in before testifying at a hearing. The Board, Commission, or the Hearing
        Examiner may place a time limit on verbal testimony. If there is a time limitation, the
        limitation is announced at the beginning of the hearing.
     2. Overview of the Application. Hearings before the Board, Commission, or the Hearing
        Examiner shall commence with a brief overview from staff and staff's submission of
        the written report to the Board, Commission, or the Hearing Examiner.
     3. Applicant/Appellant Presentation of Application. The applicant/appellant shall
        present its application and is allowed an opportunity to present testimony, documents,
        and other evidence which supports the application.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 208
     4. Public Testimony. The Board, Commission, or Hearings Examiner shall take
        comments from the public. Those providing public testimony have an opportunity to
        present testimony, documents, or other evidence. The Board, Commission, or Hearings
        Examiner may alternate between those supporting and those opposing a particular
        application. The public and/or staff may be questioned at any time during the public
        hearing process.
     5. Applicant/Appellant Rebuttal. The applicant/appellant is allowed a rebuttal
        opportunity. This rebuttal is limited to responding to testimony, documents, or other
        evidence provided during the public testimony.
     6. Conclusion of the Hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Board, Commission,
        or Hearings Examiner shall close the record prior to its deliberations. If the Board,
        Commission, or Hearings Examiner determines additional evidence is required, it may
        proceed as follows:
         a. Close the record except for allowing the submission of specifically requested
            information;
         b. Leave the entire record open for the submission of additional evidence to a date
            certain; or
         c. Continue the hearing to a date certain for the purpose of receiving additional
            evidence and conducting further proceedings as may be advisable.
     7. Close Record. After the Board, Commission, or Hearings Examiner closes the record
        and begins its deliberation, no further comments or testimony may be taken from the
        applicant/appellant, staff, or the public.
  F. Record of the Public Hearing
     1. The staff report, any documents, and/or comments submitted by the close of business
        on the Thursday before the hearing date by the applicant/appellant and the public, and
        all testimony given at the hearing automatically become part of the record.
     2. Any documents submitted as part of testimony also become part of the public hearing
        record.
  G. Decision or Recommendation from the Public Hearing. When the record is closed, the
     Board, Commission, or Hearings Examiner shall take the matter under advisement for the
     purpose of deliberating toward a decision or recommendation based on the record. After
     deliberating, the Board, Commission, or Hearings Examiner may then immediately render
     a written decision or recommendation or may continue the matter to a date and time certain
     for further deliberation and decision or recommendation.
  H. Request for Reconsideration of Decision
     1. Every applicant or affected person seeking judicial review of the Board's final decision
        must first submit to the Director an application and the fee as set forth in this Title
        requesting reconsideration of the Board's decision. The request must specify
        deficiencies in the decision and must be submitted within fourteen (14) days of the date
        of the decision. The deficiencies identified must be based on the record and not based
        on information that is not part of the record.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 209
          2. The Board will consider the request for reconsideration at a scheduled open business
             meeting and determine whether to grant or deny the request for reconsideration of its
             decision. If the Board grants reconsideration of its decision in whole or in part, the
             Board will conduct a scheduled public hearing on the specific deficiencies identified
             by the applicant or affected person and to allow interested persons an opportunity to be
             heard.
          3. Notice of a public hearing concerning a request for reconsideration includes the
             following:
             a. Notice to Agencies and Political Subdivisions. At least fifteen (15) days prior to
                the public hearing, the Director shall send notice to all political subdivisions
                providing services with the planning jurisdiction, including school districts.
             b. Legal Notice. At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing, the Director
                shall publish a notice of the time and place in the official newspaper or paper of
                general circulation in the County.
             c. Radius Notice. Radius notice follows the same manner as originally provided on
                the application.
          4. If the Board grants the request to hold a hearing on the reconsideration, it must occur
             within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. If the Board fails to
             timely decide, the request for reconsideration is deemed denied.
          5. Following the hearing on the reconsideration, the Board may affirm, reverse, or modify
             its prior decision and shall provide a written decision to the applicant and the affected
             person(s).
8-6-10:      Time Extension
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to an extension of the effective time period for an
      approved application, or an extension of time to comply with permit conditions for an
      application.
   B. Initiation. Applications subject to this Section are submitted to the Director on forms
      provided by the Development Services Department.
   C. Contents. The application shall include a letter describing the reasons for the time
      extension request. These reasons may include:
          1. Current and/or forecasted economic conditions that make it impracticable to finish the
             development within the time allotted; or
          2. Delays that make it impracticable to meet the conditions of approval and/or
             development requirements within the time allotted.
   D. Timing. A filed application must occur prior to the expiration date of the development
      approval or previously granted time extension.
   E. Eligible Time Extensions
          1. A development application is only eligible to apply for and receive three (3) time
             extensions (one [1] administratively granted and two [2] granted by the Board). An
             application for a time extension must occur prior to the expiration of a granted time


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 210
             extension.
          2. The first-time extension application is administrative. An administratively granted time
             extension is valid for one (1) year from the date of the original development application
             expiration date.
          3. The second time extension application requires a public hearing in front of the Board.
             The public hearing shall comply with the notice and hearing procedures provided under
             Idaho Code Section 67-6509. The Board may grant a time extension for any period up
             to two (2) years from the administratively granted time extension expiration date. The
             Board may amend, delete, and/or add conditions of approval/development
             requirements as necessary to grant a time extension.
          4. The third time extension application requires a public hearing in front of the Board.
             The public hearing shall comply with the notice and hearing procedures provided under
             Idaho Code Section 67-6509. The Board may grant a time extension for any period up
             to two (2) years from the second Board time extension expiration date. The Board may
             amend, delete, and/or add conditions of approval/development requirements as
             necessary to grant a third time extension.
   F. Appeals. If time extension is granted and an appeal of the application is pending, the time
      extension is tolled until final resolution of that appeal.
   G. Required Findings. The Director or Board shall make the following findings to grant a
      time extension:
          1. The application was submitted in a timely manner; and
          2. The application includes reasons that justify the granting of the time extension.
8-6-11:      Accessory Uses
   A. Purpose: This Section establishes a process for accessory uses and structures on a
      property.
   B. Applicability. All properties within the County may apply for an accessory use permit, as
      permitted within the applicable zoning district.
   C. Initiation. An accessory use permit application shall be submitted to the Director.
   D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   E. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
   F. Decision
             1. The Director shall apply the specific use standards listed in Section 8-4-2 of this
                Chapter and the findings listed in subsection H of this Section to review the
                accessory use.
             2. The applicant and/or owner shall have one (1) year to obtain all necessary permits
                and obtain a zoning certificate.
             3. The Director shall determine that all conditions of approval have been met and that
                the accessory use is in conformance with this Section before a zoning certificate is
                issued.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 211
   G. Standards. See Section 8-4-2.
   H. Required Findings
          1. The proposed use shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare. The
             proposed use shall not adversely impact the health and safety of surrounding residents,
             nor shall it create undue adverse impacts on surrounding properties;
          2. The proposed use is consistent with the applicable comprehensive plan;
          3. The proposed use complies with the purpose statement of the applicable base district
             and with the specific use standards as set forth in this Section and Section 8-4-2;
          4. The proposed use complies with the dimensional standards of the applicable base
             district;
          5. The proposed use complies with all applicable County ordinances;
          6. The proposed use complies with all applicable State and Federal regulations;
          7. The proposed use and facilities shall not adversely affect or conflict with abutting uses
             or impede the normal development of surrounding property;
          8. Adequate public and private facilities such as utilities, landscaping, parking spaces, and
             traffic circulation measures are, or shall be, provided for the proposed use;
          9. For private tower structures, the proposed tower complies with any applicable Federal
             Communications Commission decisions and regulations;
          10. For signs, the size, characteristics, location, number of signs, and the sum of the area
              of all building and freestanding signs on the property conforms to the standards
              specified in Section 8-3-12.
   I. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   J. Scope of Approval. An accessory use permit does not authorize the maintenance of an
      unlawful use or structure and does not constitute a defense in an action to abate an unlawful
      use or structure. The Ada County Building Code may require a building permit (see Section
      7-2-3 of Ada County Code and the adopted building code).
8-6-12:      Alternative Compliance
   A. Purpose. The purpose of this process is to provide for alternative means in which to meet
      certain development regulations when explicit compliance is not feasible, or the alternative
      means is superior to what is required. This Section encourages creative solutions to land
      use problems. The County recognizes that some specific requirements of this Title do not
      anticipate all possible situations. Further, the County recognizes that there may be land use
      proposals that conform to the purpose, intent, and objectives of the regulations in this Title
      but were not anticipated in the specific regulations. This Section sets forth an alternative
      method of compliance in the event of these situations.
   B. Applicability
          1. Alternative compliance allows for relief from the following specific requirements set
             forth in this Title:
             a. Base and Overlay District Dimensional Standards (Chapter 2) of no more than

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 212
             twenty-five percent (25%) deviation;
         b. Development Standards (Chapter 3);
         c. Use Standards (Chapter 4);
         d. Subdivision Standards (Chapter 5); and
         e. Master Site Plan Standards (Section 8-6-19).
     2. Requests for alternative compliance are allowed only if at least one (1) of the following
        conditions exist:
         a. Topography, soil, vegetation, or other site conditions are such that full compliance
            is impossible or impractical;
         b. The site involves space limitations or an unusually shaped lot;
         c. Safety considerations make alternative compliance desirable;
         d. Other regulatory agencies or departments having jurisdiction require standards that
            conflict with the requirements of this Title;
         e. Additional environmental quality improvements would result from alternative
            compliance.
  C. Initiation
     1. Alternative compliance applications shall be submitted to the Director.
     2. An application for alternative compliance shall be submitted upon a determination that
        a project does not comply with specific provisions of this Title.
     3. The application shall specify:
         a. The specific requirements that are proposed to be modified;
         b. The reasons for the modification; and
         c. A demonstration of how the alternative means for compliance meets the
            requirements' intended purpose.
  D. Completeness. See 8-6-5.
  E. Notice. At least fifteen (15) days before rendering a decision, the Director shall provide
     written notice to all applicable agencies, political subdivisions, and property owners in
     accordance with Section 8-6-8.
  F. Decision. The Director shall apply the standards listed in subsection B of this Section and
     the findings listed in subsection G of this Section to review the request for alternative
     compliance.
  G. Required Findings. To grant approval for an alternative compliance application, the
     Director shall find that:
     1. Strict adherence or application of the requirements are not feasible; or
     2. The alternative compliance provides an equal or superior means for meeting the
        requirements; and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 213
          3. The alternative compliance is not materially detrimental to the public welfare and does
             not impair the intended uses and character of surrounding properties.
   H. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   I. Scope of Approval. Alternative compliance does not establish precedent for acceptance in
      other cases.
8-6-13:      Appeal
   A. Application. Any decision or action may be appealed as set forth in this Chapter by an
      affected person as defined in Idaho Code Section 67-6521(1)(a).
          1. A person aggrieved by a final decision or action within the jurisdiction and authority
             of the Director (see 8-6-6D.1), the Hearings Examiner (see 8-6-6D.4), or the
             Commission (see 8-6-6D.2) may appeal to the Board.
          2. A person aggrieved by the Board’s final decision or action may seek judicial review as
             provided by Idaho Code Sections 67-6521(d) and 67-6535.
   B. Appeal Procedures
          1. Appeals of written decisions shall be filed with the Director within fifteen (15) days
             after the date of the written decision. Untimely appeals are not accepted. An application
             and fees, as set forth in Section 8-6-5, are submitted to the Director on forms provided
             by the Development Services Department.
          2. The Director shall schedule, and the Board shall hold a public hearing and make a
             decision pursuant to the procedures as set forth in this Chapter.
          3. At the public hearing, the Board will consider the order, requirement, permit, decision,
             or determination of the Commission and/or Director, and any attached conditions. The
             Board shall also consider any additional evidence offered by the public, applicant,
             Director, and/or Commission.
          4. The Board may affirm, reverse, modify, in whole or in part the order, requirement,
             permit, decision, or determination appealed from, or make or substitute any additional
             conditions it finds as warranted based on its deliberations.
8-6-14:      Comprehensive Plan Amendment (Map or Text)
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any petition to amend the Comprehensive Plan.
   B. Initiation
          1. The Board, Planning and Zoning Commission or a public entity may propose to amend
             the Comprehensive Plan following the notice and public hearing procedures of this
             Chapter.
          2. Any County resident or property owner may propose a comprehensive plan amendment
             to the Board.
          3. Comprehensive plan amendment petitions are submitted to the Director.
   C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   D. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 214
   E. Decision
          1. Staff Review. The Director shall review the petition and prepare and send a
             recommendation for the Commission’s review.
          2. Commission Review. The Commission shall review the petition and submit its
             recommendation to the Board:
             a. To approve the comprehensive plan amendment;
             b. To deny the comprehensive plan amendment; or
             c. To approve the comprehensive plan amendment with suggested changes.
          3. Board Decision. The Board shall make the final decision:
             a. To approve the comprehensive plan amendment;
             b. To deny the comprehensive plan amendment; or
             c. To approve the comprehensive plan amendment with changes.
   F. Required Findings. The Board shall make following findings to grant a comprehensive
      plan amendment:
          1. The comprehensive plan amendment complies with applicable Idaho Code Sections
             67-6508, 67-6509, and 67-6537(4); and
          2. The comprehensive plan amendment is not detrimental to public health, safety, and
             welfare.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval. The approval of a comprehensive plan amendment does not directly
      authorize the development of land.
8-6-15:      Conditional Use Permit
   A. Purpose. This Section provides procedures, general conditional use standards, and
      required findings for various conditional uses as set forth under the base district, any
      applicable overlay districts, and in accord with the specific use standards of this Chapter.
   B. Applicability
          1. This Section applies to any use that requires conditional use approval as noted in the
             applicable base district or overlay district.
          2. Any modification or expansion of a previously approved conditional use that would
             generate the need for a new master site plan review requires a new conditional use
             approval.
          3. Upon the sale or transfer of an approved conditional use, and if the approved use
             requires a license to operate, the subsequent property owner or operator must provide
             evidence of proper licensing to the Director.
   C. Initiation
          1. Generally. A conditional use permit may be initiated by the owner of the subject
             property and shall be submitted to the Director.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 215
     2. Additionally
         a. The master site plan for the conditional use shall address firefighting resources.
            Those resources shall include proper access for firetrucks, water for fire flow and/or
            defensible space.
         b. A screening plan shall be submitted for any parking areas abutting a residential
            district. See also Section 8-3-7.
         c. The owner and/or operator shall provide evidence that any dangerous
            characteristics of the proposed use are eliminated or minimized so as not to create
            a nuisance or cause detriment to public health, safety, or welfare.
  D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
  E. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
  F. Decision
     1. Staff Review. The Director shall review the application and prepare and send a
        recommendation for the Commission’s review.
     2. Commission Decision. The Commission shall make the final decision:
         a. To approve the conditional use permit;
         b. To deny the conditional use permit; or
         c. To approve the conditional use permit with conditions. The conditions may include,
            but not limited to, any or all of the following:
             1. Standards related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other potentially
                objectionable impacts.
             2. Limits on time of day for the conduct of the specified use and facility hours.
             3. The permit’s exercise or lapse period.
             4. Other standards necessary to protect public health, safety, and welfare and
                mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
  G. Standards. Any applicable specific use standards listed in Chapter 4 of this Title and the
     findings listed in subsection H below in reviewing the conditional use shall apply.
  H. Required Findings. The Commission shall find the following before issuing a conditional
     use permit:
     1. The proposed use is not detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare;
     2. The proposed use does not create undue adverse impacts on surrounding properties;
     3. The proposed use is consistent with the applicable comprehensive plan;
     4. The proposed use complies with the purpose statement of the applicable base district
        and with the specific use standards as set forth in this Chapter;
     5. The proposed use complies with all applicable County ordinances;
     6. The proposed use complies with all applicable state and federal regulations;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 216
     7. The proposed use and facilities do not impede the normal development of surrounding
        property;
     8. Adequate public and private facilities such as utilities, landscaping, parking spaces, and
        traffic circulation measures are provided for the proposed use;
     9. Political subdivisions, including school districts, are able to provide services for the
        proposed use; and
     10. If abutting or within a rural district, the proposed use shall not cause detrimental
         impacts to agriculture.
  I. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
  J. Scope of Approval of the Conditional Use
     1. Generally. The approval of a conditional use permit does not authorize the
        development of land. Any development that occurs after the conditional use permit is
        approved requires additional approval, which may include subdivision review or
        master site development plan approval, if applicable, and building permits and
        certificates of occupancy.
     2. Ongoing Obligations. The approved project shall:
        a. Comply with all applicable approved plans and specifications,
        b. Continuously maintain adequate housekeeping practices so as not to create a
           nuisance, and
        c. Maintain sanitary practices so as not to create a public nuisance and to reduce noise
           and odor.
     3. Master Site Plan. A master site plan application shall be concurrently submitted
        subject to the regulations of Section 8-6-19, unless specifically exempt under the
        regulations of that Section. The master site plan shall note any accessory buildings or
        facilities and any outdoor storage areas where they are reviewed as part of the
        conditional use.
     4. Tentative Approval
        a. Written documentation shall be provided indicating the conditional use has been
           approved by all applicable public agencies before a zoning certificate is issued.
        b. A maximum of two (2) years are allowed to obtain all necessary permits and a
           zoning certificate.
        c. The Director shall determine that all conditions of approval have been met and that
           the conditional use conforms with this Section before a zoning certificate is issued.
     5. Minor Modifications
        a. The minor modification provisions set forth for approved master site plans in
           Section 8-6-20 also apply to approved conditional uses.
        b. All other modifications to an approved conditional use are considered in accordance
           with Section 8-6-15.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 217
8-6-16:      Consolidation
   A. Purpose. The purpose of consolidation is to combine two (2) properties into one (1).
   B. Applicability. This Section applies to the approval of consolidation of properties within
      the County.
   C. Initiation. The application for consolidation shall be submitted to the Director.
   D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   E. Notice. Not applicable.
   F. Decision. The Director shall review the consolidation application and shall:
          1. Approve the consolidation;
          2. Deny the consolidation; or
          3. Approve the consolidation with conditions.
   G. Required Findings. The proposed consolidation shall result in one (1) property from two
      (2) properties that complies with the design and dimensional standards of this Title.
   H. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   I. Scope of Approval
          1. Generally. Consolidation does not authorize development and is not considered a
             "subdivision" for purposes of this Title.
          2. Tentative Approval Requirements. Upon tentative approval of the application by the
             Director subject to any applicable conditions of approval and the regulations of Section
             8-6-5, the following tasks shall be completed within one year:
             a. Survey the property and before recording submit to the Director draft copies of the
                record of survey and resultant property description for review;
             b. Execute and record the record of survey and necessary deed(s) with the Ada County
                Recorder to accomplish the consolidation as approved;
             c. Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County assessor; and
             d. Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deed, and the new tax
                parcel number to the Director.
          3. Approval Letter Issuance. The Director shall determine that all approval conditions
             are met, and that the consolidation conforms with this Section before issuing a final
             approval letter.
8-6-17:      Development Agreements
   A. Purpose. To exercise the authority granted the Board in Section 67-6511A, Idaho Code;
      to provide for the creation, form, recording, modification, enforcement, and termination of
      development agreements; and to require as a condition of a zoning ordinance map
      amendment approval that an owner of land make a written commitment concerning the use
      and/or development of that land.
   B. Applicability. At the discretion of the Director, the owner shall enter into a development


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 218
     agreement acceptable to the Board as part of receiving approval of the zoning ordinance
     map amendment.
  C. Initiation
     1. After the Commission makes a recommendation on an application for a zoning
         ordinance map amendment, the Director shall forward a request to the Ada County
         prosecuting attorney's office to create a development agreement.
     2. After the Ada County prosecuting attorney's office drafts the development agreement,
        the prosecuting attorney's office shall return the development agreement.
     3. The Director shall forward the development agreement to the owner for signature prior
        to signature by the Board.
  D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5. The Director's request shall include all the necessary
     documents pertaining to the zoning ordinance map amendment application and the creation
     of a development agreement, such as the legal description of the land subject to the zoning
     ordinance map amendment application; deed(s); preliminary plat; and any proposed
     conditions of approval.
  E. Notice. Notice is processed as part of the zoning map amendment. No separate notice is
     required for the development agreement.
  F. Decision. Approval of the zoning ordinance map amendment application by the Board is
     contingent upon the Board and owner of the land signing a mutually acceptable
     development agreement.
  G. Required Findings. See Section 67-6511A, Idaho Code.
  H. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
  I. Scope of Approval
     1. Generally. By signing the development agreement, the owner, and any subsequent
        owners, consents to having the zoning ordinance map amendment reversed, in whole
        or in part, upon failure to comply with the terms and/or conditions set out in the
        development agreement.
     2. Review And Enforcement. The Director shall monitor the owner's compliance with
        the terms and/or conditions of the development agreement. The Director shall review
        the status of the development every two (2) years from the date the development
        agreement is signed. A more frequent review may be undertaken by the Director at the
        Director's discretion or at the request of the Board. During a review the owner, or any
        subsequent owner, must demonstrate that they are in compliance with the terms and/or
        conditions of the development agreement. If the Director determines that the terms
        and/or the conditions of the development agreement are not being complied with, and
        the lack of compliance is not immediately resolved by the owner, the Director shall
        recommend that the Board enforce the terms of the development agreement by
        modification or termination.
     3. Modification. A development agreement may be modified, in whole or in part, as
        follows:



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 219
             a. Modification In Whole or in Part for Failure to Comply with Terms and/or
                Conditions. The Board may modify a development agreement and/or reverse the
                zoning designation of the land or any undeveloped portion of the land upon the
                failure of the owner or subsequent owners to comply with the terms and/or
                conditions of the development agreement. Prior to modifying a development
                agreement for failure to comply with the terms and/or conditions the owner or
                subsequent owners shall have a reasonable time as determined in the sole discretion
                of the Board to come into compliance with the terms and/or conditions. Prior to
                modifying a development agreement, the Board shall hold a public hearing in
                accordance with the notice and hearing provisions of Idaho Code Section 67-6509.
             b. Modification By Mutual Consent. The Board and the owner or subsequent owners
                of the land may mutually agree to modify a development agreement and reverse the
                zoning map amendment, in whole or in part. Prior to modifying the development
                agreement by mutual consent, the Board shall hold a public hearing in accordance
                with the notice and hearing procedures of Idaho Code Section 67-6509.
          4. Termination
             a. Termination For Failure to Comply with Terms and/or Conditions. The Board
                may terminate a development agreement and reverse the zoning designation of the
                land or any undeveloped portion of the land upon the failure of the owner or
                subsequent owners to comply with the terms and/or conditions of the development
                agreement. Prior to terminating a development agreement for failure to comply with
                the terms and/or conditions the owner or subsequent owners shall have a reasonable
                time as determined by the Board to come into compliance with the terms and/or
                conditions. Prior to terminating the development agreement for failure to comply,
                the Board shall hold a public hearing in accordance with the notice and hearing
                procedures of Idaho Code Section 67-6509.
             b. Termination By Mutual Consent. The Board and the owner or subsequent owners
                of the land may mutually agree to terminate a development agreement and reverse
                the zoning map amendment, in whole or in part. Prior to terminating the
                development agreement by mutual consent, the Board shall hold a public hearing
                in accordance with the notice and hearing procedures of Idaho Code Section 67-
                6509.
             c. Termination at Owner's Discretion. The owner of land subject to a development
                agreement may terminate the development agreement as to any remaining
                undeveloped land if the Board modifies the development agreement without mutual
                consent. In the event the owner chooses to terminate the development agreement
                under these circumstances, the Board may reverse the zoning designation of any
                undeveloped portion of the land.
             d. Termination When Owner Has Complied With and/or Completed All Terms
                and/or Conditions. A development agreement terminates when the owner has
                complied with and/or completed all the terms and/or conditions of the development
                agreement.
8-6-18:      Floodplain Development Permit. The County Floodplain Administrator issues


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 220
             Floodplain Development Permits pursuant to Section 8-2-28 Flood Hazard Overlay
             District (FH).
8-6-19:      Master Site Plan
   A. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to:
          1. Promote efficient, high-quality site designs;
          2. Preserve natural and scenic resources through design that is sensitive to the
             environment; and
          3. Ensure development is consistent with the goals of the applicable comprehensive plan
             related to community design.
   B. Applicability
          1. Unless specifically exempt under subsection 2 below, a master site plan is required for
             the following prior to zoning certificate or building permit:
             a. New construction, addition, or moving of a structure.
             b. Change of use of a property or structure.
             c. Change of occupancy of a structure as defined by the Ada County Building Code
                as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this code.
             d. Minor modifications to previously approved master site plans unless specifically
                exempt. For the purposes of this Title, traffic, and development plans, planned
                development commercial site plans, planned development industrial site plans, and
                conditional use site plans that were approved prior to the effective date are
                considered master site plans.
          2. Section 8-2-23 (Use Table) indicates whether a use is exempt from master site plan
             regulations:
          3. Section 8-2-23 (Use Table) indicates whether a use requires “partial master site plan”
             review. A partial master site plan review is exempt from subsections F.2 (Location of
             Structures on the Site). F.3 (Nonvehicular Access and Internal Circulation), and F.5
             (Natural Features).
   C. Initiation
          1. Information Required. The following information may be submitted at the time of
             application. If information is not submitted at the time of application, this may be
             submitted as a condition of approval. Any approval of a master site plan prior to the
             submission and approval of the following items is considered a tentative approval:
             a. A landscape and screening plan subject to Section 8-3-7.
             b. If any outdoor lighting is proposed or anticipated, a lighting plan shall be submitted
                subject to Section 8-3-8.
             c. If any signs are proposed or anticipated, a sign plan shall be submitted subject to
                Section 8-3-12.
          2. Natural Features Analysis. A natural features analysis shall be submitted subject to


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 221
         the regulations of subsection 8-6-19G.4. A natural features analysis is not required if
         the entire subject property already had one completed from a previous approved master
         site plan.
     3. Drainage. An increase in impervious surface area of one thousand (1,000) square feet
        or ten percent (10%) of the property area, whichever is less, requires a drainage study.
     4. Parking Plan. A parking plan shall be submitted subject to the regulations of Section
        8-3-10.
     5. Water Supply and Sewage Disposal. The master site plan shall show all well locations
        and subsurface disposal areas for wastewater treatment systems.
     6. Supplemental Information and Modifications. The Director, County Engineer,
        and/or decision-making body may require supplemental information or modifications
        where site planning has not sufficiently addressed the existing natural features.
  D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
  E. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
  F. Decision
     1. Staff Review
         a. Per the requirements of this subsection, the Director shall review the master site
            plan and shall:
            1. Approve the master site plan;
            2. Deny the master site plan;
            3. Approve the master site plan with conditions; or
            4. Refer the master site plan to the Commission for its review and final action.
         b. The applicant or an aggrieved party may appeal the Director’s decision to the Board
            pursuant to subsection I below.
     2. Authorization to Impose Conditions
         a. Generally. The Director, Commission, Hearing Examiner, or Board may impose
            conditions necessary to maintain the integrity of the County’s zoning districts, to
            ensure the proposed use is consistent with the County’s Comprehensive Plan,
            conforms with this Chapter, is appropriate to its location and compatible with
            neighboring uses, and does not cause undue traffic congestion or significant
            deterioration of the environment.
         b. Conditions Supplementary. All requirements imposed by a master site plan are in
            addition to and supplement this Chapter’s requirements.
         c. Authorized Conditions. Authorized conditions include, but are not limited to:
            1. Master Site Plan Features. Limitations or requirements regarding the area,
               setbacks, open space, landscaping, buffering, lighting, fencing, signage, off-
               street parking, and similar master site plan features of the proposal.
            2. Operations. Limitations or requirements regarding the proposed use’s


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 222
                operating characteristics, duration, or any similar feature of the proposed use.
  G. Standards. The master site plan shall meet the applicable design and dimensional
     standards of Chapters 2-5 of this Title. The site development (as depicted by the master
     site plan) shall also meet the following applicable standards:
     1. Location of Structures on the Site
         a. Within a commercial base district, the proposed placement of structures, location
            of parking areas and pedestrian walkways, method of screening, and public
            entrances shall facilitate pedestrian access to abutting residential properties.
         b. Multi-family structures shall have varied setbacks within the same structure and
            staggered and/or reversed unit plans to provide a more varied outward appearance
            of the structures.
         c. Structures within a multi-family development shall have rotated, staggered, and/or
            reversed configurations to vary the outward appearance of the structures.
     2. Nonvehicular Access and Internal Circulation
         a. Within a commercial base district, structures shall have at least one pedestrian
            access on each side of the structure that faces a street.
         b. For proposed uses that require ten (10) or more parking spaces (as set forth in
            Section of this Chapter), site development shall provide safe and well-defined
            pedestrian walkways from structures to each parking space, from structures to the
            abutting streets, and among structures on the same site.
            1. A walkway within ten feet (10') of a street shall be separated from the street
               shoulder by curbs, intervening vegetation, and/or swales.
            2. Where a walkway is within a parking area and abuts driving aisles or parking
               spaces, the walkway shall be separated by curbs, intervening vegetation, and/or
               wheel restraints. Where a walkway crosses a driving aisle, the crossing shall
               include a different paving texture and/or material or striping to indicate a
               pedestrian crossing.
         c. In planned unit developments and multi-family developments, the site development
            shall provide a safe nonvehicular circulation system including:
            1. Pedestrian and bicycle walkways that link abutting parks, schools,
               neighborhoods, and commercial areas to the greatest possible extent; and
            2. Trails and bicycle routes that link to abutting trail networks as designated by
               the APA Ridge to Rivers Pathways Plan or the applicable comprehensive plan.
     3. Automobile Access and Internal Circulation
         a. The site development shall provide for safe access to and egress from roadways.
         b. Off-street parking and loading area design shall preclude vehicles from backing out
            into a roadway.
         c. Where delivery vehicles are anticipated, the site development shall delineate a clear
            route for them, with appropriate geometric design to allow the vehicles to turn


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 223
           safely.
        d. The site development shall provide adequate internal circulation consistent with
           this Chapter.
        e. The site development shall provide an adequate design and number of parking
           spaces consistent with.
     4. Natural Features
        a. Hydrology. Analysis of natural drainage patterns and water resources throughout
           the site including an analysis of:
           1. Streams;
           2. Natural drainage swales;
           3. Ponds or lakes;
           4. Wetlands;
           5. Floodplain areas or other areas subject to flooding;
           6. Poorly drained areas;
           7. Permanent high ground water areas; and
           8. Seasonal high ground water areas.
        b. Soils
           1. Analysis of types of soils present in the site area including:
               a. Delineation of prime agricultural soil areas; and
               b. Aquifer recharge soil areas, unstable soils most susceptible to erosion, and
                  soils suitable for development.
           2. Analysis of soils is based on the Ada County soils survey (United States
              Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation Service).
        c. Topography. The application shall include:
           1. Analysis of the site's terrain including mapping of elevations and delineation of
              slope areas:
               a. Greater than twenty-five percent (25%);
               b. Between fifteen percent (15%) and twenty-five percent (25%);
               c. Between eight percent (8%) and fifteen percent (15%); and
               d. Less than eight percent (8%).
           2. Contour lines based on USGS datum of 1988 with intervals of not more than
              five feet (5') for properties with a general slope of greater than five percent
              (5%), or intervals of not more than two feet (2') for properties with a general
              slope of less than or equal to five percent (5%). The contour lines shall extend
              at least three hundred feet (300') beyond the proposed development boundary.
        d. Vegetation. Analysis of existing vegetation of the site including dominant tree,

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 224
            plant, and ground cover species.
        e. Sensitive Plant and Wildlife Species. Analysis of sensitive plant and wildlife
           species of the site including those species listed by agencies such as the Idaho
           Department of Fish and Game and United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
        f. Historic Resources. Analysis of existing historic resources as identified on the Ada
           County historic resources inventory.
        g. Hazardous Areas. Location and identification of all potentially hazardous areas
           including:
            1. Land that is unsuitable for development because of flood threat;
            2. Poorly drained areas;
            3. High ground water;
            4. Steep slopes;
            5. Rock formation;
            6. Buried pipelines; or
            7. Other conditions likely to be encountered.
        h. Impact on Natural Features. A written statement shall be submitted explaining
           how the design of the plan protects or mitigates impacts on the natural features of
           the site.
     5. Screening. The site development shall provide landscaping and screening consistent
        with Section 8-3-7 unless otherwise exempt under Section 8-3-7-B2.
     6. Drainage. Site development shall incorporate natural watercourses and above grade
        drainageways into the site design to minimize the need for culverts, pipe systems, and
        concrete channels.
     7. Water Supply and Sewage Disposal.
        a. Adequate provision shall be made for water supply and sewage disposal in
           accordance with the regulations of this Chapter.
        b. The master site plan shall address required firefighting resources, including proper
           access for firetrucks, water for fire flow, and/or defensible space by indicating or
           denoting those resources on the master site plan.
     8. Filling, Excavation, and Earthmoving. Filling, excavation, and earthmoving activity
        shall minimize erosion and sedimentation.
        a. Building design, parking lots, and other site development elements shall fit and
           orient to existing topography and natural surroundings to minimize filling,
           excavation, and earthmoving activity.
        b. The master site plan shall propose permanent soil erosion measures for all slopes
           and disturbed areas. Completed stabilization measures shall occur within fifteen
           (15) calendar days after final grading is completed.
        c. Until a disturbed area is stabilized, sediment and runoff shall be trapped by the use


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 225
             of debris basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or other acceptable methods.
     9. Historic Features. The proposed site development shall conserve identified historic
        features.
     10. Sensitive Plant and Animal Species. The site development shall minimize adverse
         impacts to sensitive plant and animal species through site design or governmental
         approved mitigation programs.
     11. Irrigation. All development proposals shall provide documentation preserving gravity
         flow irrigation systems on site and downstream.
         a. The proposed development shall not modify irrigation canals, ditches, laterals, and
            associated rights of way without written approval of the irrigation or drainage
            authority and landowners affected.
         b. When property is converted from an agricultural to a nonagricultural use, a
            pressurized irrigation system or similarly efficient delivery system shall be
            provided.
     12. Utilities
         a. The site layout shall place electrical, telephone, and other public utilities serving
            the site in a manner that is not hazardous or unsightly.
         b. All utilities shall be placed underground in a utility corridor or easement. The
            Director may waive this requirement if unique topographic or geological features
            of the site make it impractical.
         c. Transformer boxes, meters, pumping stations, and other components of the utility
            system located above ground shall be sited and buffered pursuant to the screening
            standards of Section 8-3-7 of this Chapter.
     13. Maintenance
         a. Security, trash collection, and any other nuisance created on the site, shall be
            provided for and maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
         b. The property owner, homeowners' association, or irrigation or drainage entity (as
            applicable) shall maintain any proposed drainage system.
  H. Required Findings. The Director shall find the following to approve the master site plan
     application:
     1. The master site plan complies with this Title and the applicable comprehensive plan;
     2. A natural features analysis has been submitted identifying constraints presented by
        those natural features, and the proposed development sufficiently addresses those
        features;
     3. The proposed landscaping meets the requirements of this Chapter and Section 8-3-7;
     4. The proposed parking and loading spaces meet the requirements of this Chapter and
        Section 8-3-10;
     5. The proposed lighting plan meets the requirements of this Chapter and Section 8-3-8;



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 226
          6. The proposed master site plan complies with the applicable base district standards,
             overlay district standards, and specific use standards of this Title; and
          7. Adequate utilities and public services are available or provided for the proposed
             development, and the development would not be premature by reason of lack of
             utilities, transportation, schools, fire protection, or other essential services.
   I. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   J. Scope of Approval
          1. Generally. After the site plan is approved, the building official may issue a building
             permit or certificate of occupancy consistent with any conditions of site plan approval.
          2. Tentative Approval. A maximum of two (2) years are allowed to obtain all necessary
             permits and a zoning certificate. The Director shall determine that all conditions of
             approval are met and that the master site plan conforms to this Section before a zoning
             certificate is issued.
8-6-20:      Minor Modification of an Approved Master Site Plan
   A. Applicability. The Director may approve specified minor modifications to an approved
      master site plan if those minor modifications were not subject to review or appealed during
      the original approval or at the public hearing and will not adversely impact adjacent
      properties. Minor modifications include the following:
          1. Minor relocation of building pads for practical reasons such as road alignment,
             topography, or access, if the minimum setback requirements are met.
          2. Increase in building square footage up to twenty-five percent (25%) if the minimum
             dimensional standards, off street parking and loading, landscaping and screening, sign
             and/or lighting requirements of this Title are met.
          3. Minor modifications to an approved off-street parking plan, landscape and screening
             plan, sign plan, and/or outdoor lighting plan that was part of an approved master site
             plan, if the off-street parking and loading, landscaping and screening, sign and/or
             lighting requirements of this Title are met.
   B. Initiation. Minor modification applications shall be submitted to the Director.
   C. Completeness. See 8-6-5.
   D. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
   E. Decision. The Director shall issue a letter (an “approval letter”) stating that the minor
      modification has received final approval.
   F. Standards. See Section 8-6-19.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval
          1. The Director may approve minor modifications to a previously approved master site
             plan without notice or a public hearing.
          2. Refer to Section 8-6-19 for all other modifications to an approved master site plan.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 227
8-6-21:      One-Time Division
   A. Purpose. The regulations of this Section allow for the one-time division of a parcel into
      two (2) parcels without being subject to the subdivision regulations as set forth in Chapter
      5 of this Title.
   B. Applicability. These regulations apply to lots created prior to September 29, 1959, or
      parcels of land that were of record in the Ada County recorder's office prior to January 1,
      1985 (referred to as the property of record), the boundaries of which have not changed
      except for at least one of the following:
          1. The property of record was reduced by governmental action as specified in Section 8-
             3-2M;
          2. The property of record was reduced by the conveyance of property to a public utility
             for the purpose of constructing a public infrastructure facility; or
          3. The property of record received approval for a property boundary adjustment (see
             Section 8-6-23), and:
             a. The property of record had sufficient acreage to accomplish the one- time division
                prior to completion of the property boundary adjustment; and
             b. The property boundary adjustment did not diminish the size of the property of
                record so that it no longer has sufficient acreage to accomplish the one-time
                division.
   C. Initiation. One-time division applications shall be submitted to the Director.
   D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   E. Notice. Not applicable.
   F. Decision
          1. The Director shall review the one-time division and shall:
             a. Approve the one-time division;
             b. Deny the one-time division; or
             c. Approve the one-time division with conditions.
          2. Tentative Approval Requirements. Upon tentative approval of the application by the
             Director subject to any applicable conditions of approval and the regulations of Section
             8-6-5, the following tasks shall be completed within one year:
             a. Cause the property to be surveyed;
             b. Before recording, submit draft copies of the record of survey and resulting parcel
                descriptions to the Director for review;
             c. Execute and record the record of survey and necessary deeds with the Ada County
                Recorder to accomplish the one-time division as approved;
             d. Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County assessor; and
             e. Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, and the new tax parcel numbers to


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 228
                 the Director.
          3. Approval Letter Issuance. The Director shall determine that all approval conditions
             are met, and that the one-time division conforms with this Section before issuing a final
             approval letter.
   G. Required Findings
          1. The Director shall find that the proposed one-time division complies with the standards
             in this subsection to approve the application.
          2. The proposed division shall result in two (2) parcels that comply with the design and
             dimensional standards of this Title. However, if the property of record is diminished
             by governmental action, the Director may approve a reduced property size on one of
             the resulting parcels subject to other regulations of this Title.
          3. The proposed division is not a “subdivision” as defined in this Title.
   H. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   I. Scope of Approval. A one-time division is not considered a "subdivision" for purposes of
      this Title.
8-6-22:      Planned Unit Development
   A. Purpose. The Planned Unit Development (PUD) provides a discretionary review process
      to permit flexibility in zoning and site standards where the application demonstrates that
      the proposed development standards are equivalent or superior to the base district standards
      and meet the intent of the Comprehensive Plan. The PUD responds to unique physical
      characteristics of property and its surrounding area, where more flexible zoning than
      achievable through a base district is desirable. This provides for creative, high-quality
      development incorporating well designed and integrated open space and/or recreational
      facilities at scales proportionate to the use; a system of circulation and access that supports
      multimodal forms of mobility; preservation of significant aspects of the lot, including
      natural features, views and/or cultural resources; building design, site design, and amenities
      that create a unique and more sustainable alternative to conventional development; an
      appropriate scale for a property owner or homeowner association to manage future
      maintenance responsibilities; and single or multiple land use activities organized in a
      comprehensive manner and designed to work together in common and in a synergistic
      manner to benefit both the project and the neighboring properties.
   B. Applicability. This Section applies to any application to establish a PUD. The Commission
      may approve a PUD if:
          1. The proposed project area shall lie entirely within an area of city impact.
          2. The minimum project area is five (5) acres.
          3. The proposed development involves at least one of the following:
             a. A mix of uses that are not allowed as principal permitted or conditional uses in the
                same base district;
             b. Any commercial or industrial development with a total building area more than one
                hundred thousand (100,000) square feet;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 229
         c. Clustering of residential units away from physical constraints or hazardous areas.
            Examples of physical constraints include flood hazards, unstable geologic
            conditions, soil conditions, topography, identified high ground water areas, and
            other characteristics that could threaten public health and/or safety; or
         d. Deviation of dimensional standards to achieve dedicated open space and provide
            amenities not found in traditional subdivisions.
  C. Initiation
     1. Applications for PUDs shall be submitted to the Director. Concurrent submittal of a
        master site plan is required.
  D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
  E. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
  F. Decision
     1. Staff Review. The Director shall review the application and prepare and send a
        recommendation for the Commission’s review.
     2. Commission Decision. The Commission shall make the final decision:
         a. To approve the PUD;
         b. To deny the PUD; or
         c. To approve the PUD with conditions. The conditions may include any or all of the
            following:
            1. Standards related to the emission of noise, vibration, and other potentially
               objectionable impacts.
            2. Limits on time of day and hours for the conduct of specified uses and facilities
               within the PUD.
            3. The permit’s exercise or lapse period.
            4. Other standards necessary to protect public health, safety, and welfare and
               mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
  G. Standards
     1. General Use Standards
         a. No more than twenty percent (20%) of the total area of the planned unit
            development shall be designated for uses not otherwise permitted in the base
            district.
         b. Any applicable specific use standards listed in Chapter 4 of this Title shall apply.
     2. Connectivity. An interconnected system of roadways and/or pathways shall connect
        all uses in a PUD.
     3. Residential Density Standards
         a. Generally. The allowable density for residential uses is the density established by
            the comprehensive plan. Where the comprehensive plan does not indicate an urban


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 230
           density for development, the maximum density is three (3) dwelling units per acre.
           The County may approve higher densities as provided in subsection b below.
        b. Density Bonus. An increase in the average residential density may be allowed by
           incorporating dedicated open space or public use dedications into the planned unit
           development. All dedications shall be shown on the master site plan.
           1. Additional Open Space Dedication. For each full additional percentage point
              of property in dedicated open space above the minimum requirements, the
              average residential density may be increased by the same percentage. The
              maximum density for residential areas shall not exceed an additional twenty-
              five percent (25%) over the base density.
           2. Public Amenity Dedications. A density bonus may be approved for
              dedications of facilities or interests in real property for public amenities. The
              maximum density bonus shall be as set forth in Table 8-6-22-1. See subsection
              D regarding required findings for mandatory dedication of facilities.
           3. Public Amenity Defined. For the purposes of this Section, the term "public
              amenity" includes the following: school site, bike path, transit facility, park site,
              park and ride lot, and public safety facility such as police, fire, or emergency
              medical facilities.

                          Table 8-6-22-1 Density Bonus as Percent of Total Project

                        Area of Land Designated as Public Use
                           Facility Dedication as Percent of  Maximum Density Bonus
                           Total Project Area
                                                         15% 5%
                                                         20% 10%
                                                         25% 15%
           4. Dedicated Open Space Uses. Dedicated open space uses shall comply with the
              regulations of Chapter 3 of this Title.
           5. Commercial Uses. The following design standards apply to any proposed
              commercial uses within a planned unit development:
               a. Joint parking facilities shall be planned to use common access points to
                  public streets.
               b. Screening shall be provided on the perimeter of commercial uses abutting
                  the residential areas as provided in Section 8-3-7F (Perimeter Landscaping
                  and Screening) of this Title.
               c. Commercial buildings and structures:
                 i.   Shall share common design themes in landscaping, signs, architecture,
                      and building bulk with other uses within the planned unit development.
           6. Industrial Uses. The following design standards apply to any proposed
              industrial uses within a PUD:
               a. Landscaping shall be provided as required in Section 8-3-7 of this Title for


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 231
                        parking areas, loading areas, and outdoor storage areas of industrial
                        materials.
                b. Screening shall be provided on the perimeter of industrial uses abutting
                   residential areas as provided in Section 8-3-7 of this Title.
                c. Structure location shall promote efficient installation of utilities.
                d. Industrial uses buildings and structures:
                   i.      Shall share common design themes in landscaping, signs, architecture,
                           and building bulk with other uses within the planned unit development.
            7. Improvements
                a. Improvements, consistent with the standards established in the area or as
                   designated in any officially adopted comprehensive plan, are required as a
                   condition of approval of a PUD.
                b. If any improvements required as part of the PUD cannot be completed prior
                   to submission of a final plat and/or signing of the master site plan, the
                   applicant or owner shall deposit a surety as set forth in Section 8-3-5 of this
                   Title.
            8. Deviations. As part of the original application, a written request to deviate from
               the dimensional standards of this Title may be included. Where applicable, the
               proposed deviations shall be noted on the master site plan.
            9. Alternative Development Standards. The development agreement may
               include alternative development standards when the overall design meets or
               exceeds the intent and requirements of this Section and are not detrimental to
               the public health, safety, and welfare. The development agreement may also
               allow the Director to approve alternative development standards pursuant to
               standards and procedures identified in the agreement.
  H. Required Findings. The Commission shall find the following before issuing a PUD:
     1. The proposed development is not detrimental to public health, safety, or welfare;
     2. The proposed development does not create undue adverse impacts on surrounding
        properties;
     3. The proposed development is consistent with the applicable comprehensive plan;
     4. The proposed development complies with the purpose statement of the applicable base
        district and with the specific use standards as set forth in this Chapter;
     5. The proposed development complies with all applicable County ordinances;
     6. The proposed development complies with all applicable state and federal regulations;
     7. The proposed development does not impede the normal development of surrounding
        property;
     8. Adequate public and private facilities such as utilities, landscaping, parking spaces, and
        traffic circulation measures are provided for the proposed development;



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 232
     9. Political subdivisions, including school districts, are able to provide services for the
        proposed development; and
     10. If abutting or within a rural district, the proposed development shall not cause
         detrimental impacts to agriculture.
     11. The arrangement of uses and/or structures conforms to the topography and natural
         landscape features;
     12. The arrangement of uses and/or structures in the development does not cause damage,
         hazard, or nuisance to persons or property in the vicinity;
     13. The internal street system is designed for the efficient and safe flow of vehicles and
         pedestrians without having a disruptive influence upon the activities and functions
         contained within the development, or place an undue burden upon existing
         transportation and other public services in the surrounding area;
     14. Community facilities (such as park, recreation, and dedicated open space areas) are
         functionally related and accessible to all dwelling units via pedestrian and/or bicycle
         pathways. Dedicated open space shall abut any lots that are reduced below the
         minimum average lot size of adjacent residentially zoned subdivisions and multi-family
         development within the PUD;
     15. The proposal complies with the density standards set forth in this Section;
     16. The PUD conforms to the applicable comprehensive plan, future acquisition maps, area
         of city impact ordinance, and other applicable ordinances; and
     17. Additional required findings for mandatory public use facility dedications or
         improvement:
        a. The dedication of the public use facility is substantiated by the governing Board
           responsible for the facility;
        b. The public use facility shall serve the public interest in the PUD’s location;
        c. The public use facility is consistent with the comprehensive plan; and
        d. The capacity, area, and location of property to be dedicated to the public use facility
           is proportionate to the demand generated by the proposed development.
  I. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
  J. Scope of Approval of the PUD
     1. Generally. The approval of a PUD does not authorize the development of land. Any
        development that occurs after the PUD is approved requires additional approval, which
        may include subdivision review or master site development plan approval, if
        applicable, and building permits and certificates of occupancy.
     2. Ongoing Obligations. The approved project shall:
        a. Comply with all applicable approved plans and specifications;
        b. Continuously maintain adequate housekeeping practices so as not to create a
           nuisance; and



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 233
             c. Maintain sanitary practices so as not to create a public nuisance and to reduce noise
                and odor.
          3. Master Site Plan. A master site plan application shall be concurrently submitted
             subject to the regulations of Section 8-6-19, unless specifically exempt under the
             regulations of that Section. The master site plan shall note any accessory buildings,
             facilities, and any outdoor storage areas where they are reviewed as part of the PUD.
          4. Tentative Approval
             a. Written documentation shall be provided indicating the conditional use has been
                approved by all applicable public agencies before a zoning certificate is issued.
             b. A maximum of two (2) years are allowed to obtain all necessary permits and a
                zoning certificate.
             c. The Director shall determine that all conditions of approval have been met and that
                the PUD conforms with this Section before a zoning certificate is issued.
8-6-23:      Property Boundary Adjustment
   A. Purpose. This Section allows parcel line or platted lot line adjustments between existing
      legal or nonconforming properties.
   B. Applicability. These regulations apply to adjustments of parcel lines or platted lot lines
      between existing lots and parcels in Ada County.
   C. Initiation. Property boundary adjustment applications shall be submitted to the Director.
   D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   E. Notice. A copy of the application shall be submitted to the Ada County Surveyor and
      Central District Health.
   F. Decision. The Director shall review the property boundary adjustment and shall:
          1. Approve the property boundary adjustment; or
          2. Deny the property boundary adjustment; or
          3. Approve the property boundary adjustment with conditions.
   G. Required Findings
          1. A property boundary adjustment shall not reduce the property size below the minimum
             dimensional standards prescribed by this Title, including regulations for individual
             wastewater treatment systems and wells as set forth in as set forth in Section 8-3-5D of
             this Chapter.
          2. If one or more of the properties is nonconforming as to the minimum dimensional
             standards prescribed by this Title, the property boundary adjustment shall not increase
             the nonconformity.
          3. A property boundary adjustment shall not increase the original number of properties.
          4. A property boundary adjustment shall not change or move any public streets, private
             roads, easements, or publicly dedicated areas.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 234
          5. The property boundary adjustment shall not constitute a relocation of a property.
          6. For platted lots, the property boundary adjustment substantially conforms to the
             recorded plat.
   H. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   I. Scope of Approval. A property boundary adjustment does not vacate the platted lot lines
      of a recorded subdivision.
          1. Tentative Approval Requirements. Upon tentative approval of the application by the
             Director subject to any applicable conditions of approval and the regulations of Section
             8-6-5, the following tasks must be completed within one year:
          2. Cause the property to be surveyed;
          3. Before recording, submit draft copies of the record of survey and resulting parcel
             descriptions to the Director for review;
          4. Execute and record the record of survey and necessary deeds with the Ada County
             Recorder to accomplish the approved property boundary adjustments;
          5. Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County assessor; and
          6. Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds, and the new tax parcel
             numbers to the Director.
          7. Approval Letter Issuance. The Director shall determine that all conditions of approval
             are met, and that the property boundary adjustment conforms with this Section before
             issuing a final approval letter.
8-6-24:      Sign Permit
   A. Applicability. It is unlawful for any person to erect, or alter any sign as defined in this
      Title without first obtaining a sign permit. This does not require a permit for sign
      maintenance, altering permitted changeable copy, or signs exempted from a permit as
      described elsewhere in Section 8-3-12.
   B. Initiation. Sign permit applications include one set of plans drawn to scale indicating the
      sign size, location, method of illumination, colors, materials of the sign and structure,
      method of attachment, and any permit fees. In addition, information relating to the
      placement, construction, and design shall be submitted to the Director, as needed to
      demonstrate compliance with Section 8-3-12.
   C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   D. Notice. Not applicable.
   E. Decision. The Director will approve or deny the sign permit application within sixty (60)
      days following the date of its submission. If the Director fails to timely act on the
      application, the sign permit is deemed denied unless a request is submitted for continuance.
   F. Required Findings. The Director shall approve the sign permit application pursuant to the
      regulations in Section 8-3-12.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 235
   H. Issuance. The Director will issue a permit for the erection, alteration, or relocation of a
      sign within the County when an application is properly made, and the sign complies with
      all appropriate laws and ordinances.
   I. Scope of Approval. A sign permit does not authorize the maintenance of an unlawful sign
      and does not constitute a defense in an action to abate an unlawful sign. The Ada County
      Building Code may require a building permit (see Section 7-2-3 of Ada County Code and
      the adopted building code).
8-6-25:      Subdivision Plats – Generally
   A. Applicability. In addition to the requirements for public hearings in Section 8-6-9, the
      following are general approval procedures for subdivision review applications. Specific
      regulations for each type of subdivision review application are prescribed in Sections 8-6-
      26, 8-6-27, and 8-6-28.
   B. Initiation
          1. An application for subdivision review approval is not considered filed until the Director
             determines that it is complete.
          2. Concurrent with the submission of a subdivision review application, required
             information established in Sections 8-6-26, 8-6-27, and 8-6-28, as applicable, and any
             additional information required by the Director shall be submitted.
   C. Completeness
          1. Generally. Completeness shall comply with Section 8-6-5.
          2. Additionally
             a. These standards shall be followed in all subdivisions regulated by this Title.
             b. Any proposed subdivision in areas of the County where topographical slopes are
                greater than fifteen percent (15%) or where adverse conditions associated with
                slope stability, erosion, or sedimentation are present, as determined by the County
                Engineer, shall conform with the additional hillside regulations in Section 8-2-30
                as set forth in this Title.
             c. Adequate means for eliminating unsuitable conditions must be approved by the
                County Engineer in order to develop property that has been designated in the
                applicable comprehensive plan, in the natural features analysis, or elsewhere, as
                being unsuitable for development because of flood threat, poorly drained areas,
                high groundwater, steep slopes, rock formation, buried pipelines, or other similar
                conditions likely to be encountered.
             d. The limits of the subdivision shall encompass the full extent of the owner's lot or
                "contiguous parcels", as defined in this Title.
             e. The decision-making body may require modifications where, in its opinion, site
                planning has not sufficiently addressed the existing natural features.
             f. In addition to Section 8-6-5, the Development Services Department shall examine
                all subdivision applications for compliance with this Title. The application is
                forwarded to the appropriate decision-making body for consideration. Failure of


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 236
                 staff to make specific comments related to application deficiencies does not relieve
                 the property owner from compliance with this Title.
   D. Notice. Subdivision applications require noticing pursuant to Section 8-6-8 unless
      otherwise noted in this Title.
   E. Decision
          1. Generally
             a. Subdivision review applications are approved by the decision-making body
                prescribed in Section 8-6-2.
             b. Staff review will occur for all subdivision review applications prior to a final
                decision by the applicable decision-making body.
          2. Decision Types. The decision-making body shall make any of the following decisions
             for this Section:
             a. Approve the application if it complies with all provisions of this Title;
             b. Disapprove the application if it fails to comply with this Title; or
             c. Approve the application with conditions.
   F. Required Findings. The following standards apply to all subdivision applications:
          1. No land shall be used for a purpose prohibited by a condition of approval, any plat note
             required by condition of approval, inscribed on an approved plat, nor shall any land be
             used that is not in accordance with the regulations of this Title.
          2. No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or structurally altered
             or moved for a purpose or purposes prohibited by covenants incorporated as plat
             restrictions and approved by the Director, Commission, or Board.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval
          1. Generally
             a. Approval of a subdivision review application does not constitute acceptance of the
                subdivision but authorizes preparation of the final plat unless otherwise noted in
                this Section.
             b. Once public improvements and easements are accepted by the County Engineer,
                recordkeeping can occur.
          2. Modifications. See Section 8-6-12.
8-6-26:      Subdivision Plats – Preliminary Plat
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any application for approval of a preliminary plat of
      subdivision.
   B. Initiation
          1. Generally. A preliminary plat application shall be submitted to the Director.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 237
     2. Required Information. The preliminary plat shall include the following required
        information:
         a. The subdivision boundary that is based on an actual field survey including the
            stamp of the licensed in the state of Idaho professional land surveyor certifying and
            stamping the boundary survey of the plan. Boundary problems shall be resolved,
            and non-buildable remnants are prohibited. For purposes of this subsection, a “non-
            buildable remnant” means a lot that does not meet the minimum lot size
            requirements of the applicable zoning district. Certification and stamping of the
            plan by the professional land surveyor is required only for the boundary survey.
         b. The name of the owner.
         c. The name of the person or firm responsible for the drawing.
         d. The name of the proposed subdivision in accord with Idaho Code Section 50-1307.
         e. The date, graphic scale, true north arrow, vicinity map, section, township, and
            range.
         f. Ties to all controlling corners.
         g. The names of neighboring subdivisions as listed in the Ada County Assessor's files.
         h. The names of owners of neighboring properties as listed in the assessor's files, and
            the boundaries of all neighboring properties.
         i. The name, location, width, direction of slope, centerline and right of way of all
            existing and proposed public streets and private roads.
         j. The proposed off-site improvements pertaining to streets, water supply, sanitary
            sewer systems, storm water systems, fire protection facilities, and proposed
            utilities.
         k. The lot layout with lot and block numbers, lot dimensions, and lot area in square
            feet.
         l. The minimum setbacks from the front, the side, and the rear property lines.
         m. Areas of special use, e.g., parks and schools, with appropriate labels.
     3. Separation of Information. Separate drawing(s) may be required to assist in
        delineation of specific information.
  C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
  D. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
  E. Decision
     1. Staff Review. The Director shall review the application and prepare and send a
        recommendation for the Commission’s review.
     2. Commission Review. The Commission shall review the application and submit its
        recommendation to the Board:
         a. To approve the application; or



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 238
        b. To disapprove the application; or
        c. To approve the application with conditions.
     3. Board Decision. See Section 8-6-25E.2 (Decision Types).
  F. Required Findings. The Board shall find the following before approving a preliminary
     plat:
     1. The design conforms to the standards established in Chapter 5;
     2. The design complies with the required improvements established in Section 8-5-7;
     3. If applicable, the proposed subdivision complies with the standards of an overlay
        district as set forth in Chapter 2 of this Title;
     4. The design conforms to the topography and natural landscape features and shows
        consideration for the location and function of land uses and structures to achieve this
        purpose;
     5. The development would not cause undue damage, hazard, or nuisance to persons or
        property in the vicinity;
     6. The internal street system is designed for the efficient and safe flow of vehicles,
        bicycles, and pedestrians without disrupting the activities and functions contained
        within the proposed subdivision, or placing an undue burden upon existing
        transportation and other public services in the surrounding area;
     7. Community facilities such as parks, recreation, and dedicated open space areas are
        functionally related to all dwelling units and are easily accessible via pedestrian and/or
        bicycle pathways;
     8. The proposal complies with the dimension standards set forth in this Title for the
        applicable zoning district;
     9. The overall plat conforms to the applicable comprehensive plan(s), future acquisition
        maps, area of city impact ordinances including applicable subdivision regulations, and
        other pertinent ordinances; and
     10. In addition to the findings required above, the Board shall make the following findings
         for preliminary plats located in a Planned Community base district:
        a. The preliminary plat conforms to the approved planned community implementation
           plan; and
        b. Sufficient funds will be available to construct the urban public facilities and to
           provide urban public services.
  G. Required Findings – Planned Community Preliminary Plat
     1. Accord with the Comprehensive Plan. Despite any other regulations to the contrary,
        each preliminary plat within a planned community shall be in accordance with the
        approved planned community comprehensive plan and the applicable planned
        community overlay district.
     2. Time Of Submission. A preliminary plat must be submitted to the Director no later
        than two (2) years from the date the planned community implementation plan is

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 239
        approved.
     3. Additional Application Requirements. In addition to other requirements in this
        Chapter, the following information shall be submitted with every preliminary plat
        application in a PC base district, and shall be specific to the area that the preliminary
        plat encompasses:
        a. Land Use. A color keyed land use designation sheet.
        b. Landscape. A landscape plan in compliance with the applicable overlay district.
        c. Urban Public Services. A written description of the urban public services provided
           and how they comply with the urban public services standards set forth in Chapter
           12 of this Title.
        d. Open Space. A written description of the types and sizes of developed and natural
           open space, including a detailed description of the ownership, operation, and
           maintenance structure.
        e. Community Center. A written description of the community meeting centers
           and/or recreation centers, if applicable.
        f. Water Supply. A demonstration that existing and/or proposed water rights are
           available within the entire boundary of the planned community as identified on the
           official zoning map by supplying the following, as applicable:
            1. For an existing or new private water company or water district or water from a
               private source:
                a. A letter indicating that the planned community is serviceable by said entity
                   in accordance with the existing rules and regulations as filed with the Idaho
                   Public Utilities Commission (IPUC) as applicable, or a letter indicating that
                   the planned community is serviceable after obtaining approval from the
                   IPUC, including a copy of the application filed with the IPUC as applicable;
                b. A letter from the Idaho Department of Water Resources (IDWR) indicating
                   that existing water rights, proposed changes to existing water rights, and/or
                   proposed new water rights are currently sufficient for the proposed planned
                   community or will be sufficient after obtaining approval from the IDWR. A
                   copy of the water rights documents and/or applications therefore filed with
                   IDWR shall be included with the application for preliminary plat; and
                c. A description of how the landscaping within the boundaries of the planned
                   community will be irrigated, which shall include the source(s) of the
                   irrigation water and verification from IDWR that the existing and/or
                   proposed irrigation water rights are currently sufficient, or will be sufficient
                   after obtaining approval from IDWR. Copies of such water rights
                   documents or applications, therefore, shall be included with the preliminary
                   plat application.
        g. Urban Public Services Construction. A demonstration that sufficient assets and
           funds are available to construct necessary urban public facilities required to meet
           urban public service standards in Chapter 12 of this Title, if applicable, as shown


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 240
           in the implementation plan, including, but not limited to:
           1. If the preliminary plat is being processed concurrently with the implementation
              plan then the following information shall be submitted:
              a. To the extent privately financed, a written verification of adequate owner
                 and partner equity assets in possession required to secure planned financing
                 as set forth in the cash flow pro forma, including, but not limited to, cash
                 reserves, land, and other assets meeting standard lending criteria of
                 established lenders; and
              b. To the extent financed with public resources, a written verification of
                 adequate owner and partner equity assets in possession required to secure
                 tax exempt public funds and/or bonds identified as financing tools in the
                 cash flow pro forma, including, but not limited to, cash reserves, land, and
                 other assets meeting standard lending criteria of established public lending
                 entities; or
           2. If the preliminary plat application is not being processed concurrently with the
              implementation plan, then the following material shall be submitted:
              a. An updated cash flow pro forma consistent with implementation plan
                 financing plan requirements and reflecting changes in market, economic,
                 and/or financial changes since the planned community implementation plan
                 approval;
              b. To the extent privately financed, a written verification of adequate owner
                 and partner equity assets in possession required to secure planned financing
                 as set forth in the updated cash flow pro forma, including, but not limited
                 to, cash reserves, land, and other assets meeting standard lending criteria of
                 established lenders; and
              c. To the extent financed with public resources, a written verification of
                 adequate owner and partner equity assets in possession required to secure
                 tax exempt public funds and/or bonds identified as financing tools in the
                 updated cash flow pro forma, including, but not limited to, cash reserves,
                 land, and other assets meeting standard lending criteria of established public
                 lending entities; or
           3. If urban public facilities will be constructed and owned by a municipality or a
              regulated public utility, then a certificate of service from the municipality or
              regulated public utility shall be a prima facie demonstration that sufficient
              assets and funds are available to construct the relevant urban public facilities
              required to meet urban public service standards in Chapter 12 of this Title, if
              applicable, as shown in the planned community implementation plan; or
           4. If urban public facilities will be constructed and owned by a taxing district, then
              compliance with the following requirements shall be a prima facie
              demonstration that sufficient assets and funds are available to construct the
              relevant urban public facilities required to meet urban public service standards
              in Chapter 12 of this Title as shown in the planned community implementation
              plan:

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 241
               a. The area encompassed by the planned community must be included within
                  the district boundaries;
               b. The urban public facility must be a programmed urban public facility; and
               c. The district must provide a certificate of service for the relevant area.
        h. Urban Public Services Operation and Maintenance. A demonstration that
           sufficient funds will be provided and set aside for funding the operation and
           maintenance costs of urban public services (including capital renewal and
           replacement costs) as specified in the implementation plan, including, but not
           limited to:
           1. If the preliminary plat application is being processed concurrently with the
              implementation plan, then the following information shall be submitted:
               a. A written description of the amounts needed to be placed in reserve
                  accounts for operations and maintenance reserves and verification of the
                  dedicated source of owner and/or partner assets sufficient for reserves
                  establishment. The amounts needed to be placed in reserves may take into
                  account the transition plan, the availability of other financial assurances, the
                  availability of sources of funding identified in the pro forma or some
                  combination of the above;
               b. A written assessment of the current valuation of unimproved,
                  unencumbered landholdings or other assets in hand that can or may be
                  utilized as collateral to secure funding separately for operations and
                  maintenance as identified in the cash flow pro forma; and
               c. If facilities operation will be contracted to an independent service provider,
                  a written identification of potential operator(s) and a description of and
                  verification of operator(s) qualifications and financial standing; or
           2. If the preliminary plat application is not being processed concurrently with the
              implementation plan, then the following material shall be submitted:
               a. An updated cash flow pro forma consistent with the planned community
                  implementation plan financing plan requirements and reflecting changes in
                  market, economic, and/or financial changes since the planned community
                  implementation plan approval and the following material;
               b. A written description of the amounts needed to be placed in reserve
                  accounts for operations and maintenance reserves and verification of the
                  dedicated source of owner and/or partner assets sufficient for reserves
                  establishment; the amounts to be placed in reserve may take into account
                  the transition plan, the availability of other assets and financial assurances,
                  the availability of sources of funding identified in the pro forma or a
                  combination thereof;
               c. A written assessment of the current valuation of unimproved,
                  unencumbered landholdings or other assets in hand that can or may be
                  utilized as collateral to secure funding separately for operations and
                  maintenance as identified in the updated cash flow pro forma; and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 242
                d. If facilities' operation will be contracted to an independent service provider,
                   a written identification of potential operator(s) and a description of and
                   verification of operator(s) qualifications and financial standing; or
            3. If urban public services will be provided by a municipality or regulated public
               utility, then a certificate of service from the municipality or regulated public
               utility shall be a prima facie demonstration that sufficient assets and funds are
               available to provide the relevant urban public service, and to operate and
               maintain the relevant urban public facilities required to meet urban public
               service standards, for the service being provided by the municipality or
               regulated public utility, in Chapter 12 of this Title as shown in the planned
               community implementation plan; or
            4. If urban public services will be provided by a taxing district, then compliance
               with the following three (3) requirements shall be a prima facie demonstration
               that sufficient assets and funds are available to provide the urban public service
               and to operate and maintain the relevant urban public facilities required to meet
               urban public service standards, for the service being provided by the taxing
               district as shown in the planned community implementation plan:
                a. The area encompassed by the planned community must be included within
                   the district boundaries;
                b. The urban public service must be a programmed urban public service; and
                c. The district must provide a certificate of service for the relevant area.
                    i. Transportation. The previously approved traffic impact study shall be
                       updated with each preliminary plat based upon the best available data
                       and shall be submitted to ITD and ACHD thirty (30) days prior to
                       submission of the preliminary plat to the Director. An updated
                       comprehensive transportation demand management program may be
                       required.
     4. Financing Verification Application. Prior to grading, filling, clearing, excavation or
        construction of any kind associated with an approved preliminary plat, including that
        required for infrastructure improvements, an application for financing verification shall
        be approved by the Director as follows:
        a. An application and fees as set forth in Chapter 6 of this Title shall be submitted to
           the Director on forms provided by the development services department and shall
           include the following material:
            1. A final cash flow pro forma, consistent with final verification of sufficient
               project financing required herein, for urban public services;
            2. A demonstration that sufficient assets, funds and financing are secured for
               construction of the urban public facilities, including, if applicable, that the
               planned community owner has paid or will pay pursuant to an approved
               transition plan, its proportionate share (based on a minimum density of 3
               dwelling units per acre within the applicable response time area) of any
               unfunded capital improvement costs required to construct any required new


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 243
                     municipal or district facilities;
                 3. A demonstration that sufficient assets, funds and financing are secured or are
                    identified in the approved pro forma for operation and maintenance costs of
                    urban public services (including capital renewal and replacement costs of
                    necessary urban public facilities), including, if applicable, that the planned
                    community owner has received approval on a petition to prepay taxes per Idaho
                    Code Section 63-1602 as necessary to cover any temporary shortfall caused by
                    the necessity for the applicable municipality or district to provide applicable
                    urban public services at urban public service levels until tax revenue collection
                    covers the cost of providing services including amortizing the prepayment.
   H. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   I. Scope of Approval
          1. Approval of a preliminary plat does not constitute acceptance of the subdivision but
             authorizes preparation of the final plat.
          2. Improvements shown on the preliminary plat may be constructed following approval.
          3. Preliminary plat approval is effective for a period of twenty-four (24) months. Where
             a final plat for the subdivision is not submitted for approval within the twenty-four (24)
             months, the preliminary plat becomes nullified, and the applicant shall resubmit a new
             preliminary plat application for approval subject to the then effective regulations.
8-6-27:      Subdivision Plats – Final Plat
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to the approval of final plats for recording with the
      County. Final plat applications are filed after the preliminary plat is approved.
   B. Initiation
          1. Generally. A final plat application shall be submitted to the Director.
          2. Required Information. The final plat shall include the following information as
             required by Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13 and related state law, and the following
             additional requirements:
             a. The final plat drawing page(s) and signature page drawn on eighteen-inch by
                twenty-seven-inch (18” x 27”) sheets, with all information at least three and one-
                half inches (3 1/2”) from the left edge and one-half inch (1/2”) from all other edges.
                The letters, numbers, and notes shall be of such size and scale to clearly show on
                microfilm copies, reproducible copies, and prints of the recorded documents.
             b. The drawing page(s) shall show exterior boundary and property lines, right of way
                lines, streets, street islands, existing and new easements, all accurately dimensioned
                with bearings to the nearest one second and distances to the nearest one-hundredth
                (1/100) of a foot. The dimensions shall provide a minimum lot and boundary survey
                closure of one to ten thousand (1:10,000). The drawing page(s) and owner’s
                certificate shall show or contain all related curve data including radius, length,
                central angle, long chord, and long chord bearing.
             c. Permanent monuments, magnetically detectable, marked with the license number


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 244
            of the surveyor, is set for all the following:
            1. All lot corners and exterior boundary corners.
            2. Street centerline angle points, point of curvatures (PCs), point of tangencies
               (PTs), intersecting street centerlines, and places where street centerline changes
               directions.
            3. Street islands, radius points for cul-de-sacs, and lot controlling corners that
               control the location of the boundary.
        d. In places that are impossible or impractical to set the monument, the final plat shall
           set and dimension a witness corner or reference monument. That monument shall
           have the same size and marking required for the monument it replaces. A witness
           corner monument sets on the lot line or property line. A reference monument sets
           with a bearing and distance tie to the actual corner.
        e. All monuments found, existing or accepted and used in the survey shall be marked
           with the license number of the surveyor.
        f. Format required by the County Surveyor.
        g. The plat shall show:
            1. Primary Control Points. At least two (2) primary control points, officially
               recognized by the County Surveyor and ties to those control points. Primary
               control points are public land survey corners or officially recognized corners.
               Corner perpetuation and filing recording instrument numbers are shown.
            2. Approved Street Names. The Street Naming Committee shall approve all
               street names.
            3. Easements. Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easements.
            4. Monuments. Location, description, and size of monuments that are found.
            5. Title, Subdivision Name, Description and Date. Title, including subdivision
               name in accord with Idaho Code Section 50-1307, and general location
               description and date.
            6. Owner’s Certificate. Owner’s certificate containing a statement of reservation
               of easements and private roads. Private roads may be shown as a lot or an
               easement.
            7. Right Of Way Width. The right of way width from centerline of each street or
               other right of way.
            8. Abutting Subdivisions. Name and location of abutting subdivisions. All other
               abutting properties are shown as “unplatted.”
       h.   The following certificates and approvals shall appear on the final plat:
            1. Owner’s certificate.
            2. Licensed land surveyor’s certificate.
            3. Ada County Highway District (if applicable).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 245
                 4. Central District Health.
                 5. City Engineer (if applicable).
                 6. City approval certificate (if applicable).
                 7. County Surveyor’s certificate.
                 8. Acceptance and approval of the Board.
   C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   D. Notice. Not applicable.
   E. Decision. The Board shall make the decision on the application pursuant to Subsection
      8-6-27F.
   F. Required Findings
          1. The final plat is in substantial compliance with the preliminary plat;
          2. All conditions of the approved preliminary plat are met; and
          3. For a planned community, the area encompassed by the final plat, together with any
             previously approved plats, is a self-supporting unit.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval
          1. After the final plat is recorded, building permits may be issued.
8-6-28:      Subdivision Plats – Combined Preliminary-Final Plat
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any application for approval of a combined
      preliminary-final plat. A combined preliminary-final plat shall comply with Sections 8-6-
      27 and 8-6-28.
   B. Initiation. A combined preliminary-final plat application shall be submitted to the
      Director.
   C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   D. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
   E. Decision
          1. Staff Review. The Director shall review the application and prepare and send a
             recommendation for the Commission’s review.
          2. Commission Review. The Commission shall review the application and submit its
             recommendation to the Board:
             a. To approve the application;
             b. To disapprove the application; or
             c. To approve the application with conditions.
          3. Board Decision. See Subsection 8-6-25E.2 (Decision Types).
   F. Required Findings


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 246
          1. Generally. To approve a combined preliminary-final plat, the Board shall make the
             findings in Subsections 8-6-26F and 8-6-27F.
          2. Additionally. A combined preliminary-final plat shall meet the following additional
             standards:
             a. Number of Lots. A combined preliminary-final plat is limited to a maximum of
                eight (8) lots.
             b. Dedication. Additional street right-of-way or widening of existing streets are
                prohibited.
             c. Private Roads. New, widened, or extended private road are allowed and are clearly
                marked on the combined preliminary-final plat.
             d. Phasing. Lot phasing is prohibited.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval. See Subsection 8-6-27H.
8-6-29:      Temporary Use Permit
   A. Purpose. This Section establishes a process to allow temporary uses on a property.
   B. Applicability. All properties within the County may apply for a temporary use permit, as
      a temporary use only, even if the use is not principally permitted within the zoning district.
      This Section applies to the temporary uses listed below.
          1. Temporary uses that require a zoning certificate include:
             a. Temporary Signs;
             b. Seasonal Stands;
             c. Fireworks Stands (see Idaho Code Section 39-2607);
             d. Subdivision Model Homes/Real Estate Offices; and
             e. Reapplication for an existing permitted temporary use if the permit has not expired
                or been revoked.
          2. Temporary uses that require administrative approval include new applications and
             reapplications for an expired or revoked permit for:
             a. Temporary Living Quarters;
             b. Seasonal Events;
             c. An existing dwelling, an existing secondary dwelling, or a temporary manufactured
                home dwelling while building a new single-family dwelling on the same site;
             d. A temporary Pit, Mine, Or Quarry within a residential district;
             e. An anemometer or similar device.
   C. Initiation. A temporary use application shall be submitted to the Director.
   D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   E. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 247
   F. Decision
          1. The Director shall review the temporary use permit and shall:
             a. Approve the temporary use permit;
             b. Deny the temporary use permit; or
             c. Approve the temporary use permit with conditions.
          2. The Director shall determine that all conditions of approval are met and that the
             temporary use conforms with this Section before a zoning certificate is issued.
   G. Standards. The Director shall apply the specific use standards listed in this Section and
      Section 8-4-73 of this Title to review the temporary use.
   H. Required Findings
          1. The Director will issue a temporary use only if:
             a. The proposed temporary use is not detrimental to the public health, safety, or
                welfare;
             b. The proposed use does not adversely impact the health and safety of surrounding
                residents or create undue adverse impacts on surrounding properties;
             c. The proposed temporary use complies with all applicable County ordinances;
             d. The proposed temporary use complies with all applicable federal and state
                regulations;
             e. The proposed temporary use and facilities do not adversely affect or conflict with
                abutting uses or impede the normal development of surrounding property; and
             f. Adequate public and private facilities such as utilities, landscaping, parking spaces,
                and traffic circulation measures are provided for the proposed temporary use.
   I. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   J. Scope of Approval. The approval of a temporary use permit does not authorize the
      development of land but allows for an approved use for a specified amount of time on a
      specific property.
8-6-30:      Vacation
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to a total or partial vacation of a recorded subdivision
      plat, including easements. For purposes of this Section, “vacation” or “vacate” means the
      act of reverting land that is dedicated or reserved for public use to private ownership or
      extinguishing an easement for the benefit of private use that is recorded on a subdivision
      plat. All vacations must be approved by the Board in accordance with this Title.
   B. Initiation. A vacation application shall be submitted to the Director.
   C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   D. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
   E. Decision. The Board shall review the vacation application and shall:



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 248
          1. Approve the vacation;
          2. Deny the vacation; or
          3. Approve the vacation with conditions.
   F. Required Findings. Vacation shall comply with the regulations set forth in Idaho Code
      Section 50-1306A.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval. If a vacation is approved, ownership of the vacated area reverts as
      provided under Idaho law.
8-6-31:      Variance
   A. Purpose. This Section establishes procedures for variance permits pursuant to Idaho Code
      Section 67-6516.
   B. Applicability. The Board may authorize a variance in specific cases that is not contrary to
      the public interest where exceptional circumstances and literal enforcement of the
      provisions of this Chapter will result in unnecessary hardship. Variances are subject to
      conditions and terms established by the Board.
   C. Initiation. A variance application shall be submitted to the Director.
   D. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   E. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
   F. Decision
          1. The Board shall conduct a public hearing on the variance and shall render its decision
             after the hearing is closed.
          2. The Board may, in whole or in part:
                 a. Approve the variance;
                 b. Deny the variance; or
                 c. Approve the variance with conditions.
   G. Required Findings
          1. The Board shall make the following findings to grant a variance:
                 a. The variance shall not grant a right or special privilege that is not otherwise
                    allowed in the base district;
                 b. The variance relieves an undue hardship due to characteristics of the site; and
                 c. The variance shall not cause detriment to public health, safety, and welfare.
          2. In granting any variance, the Board may prescribe appropriate conditions and
             safeguards that conforms with this Title.
          3. Applications for floodplain variance shall comply with the Section 8-2-28 of this Title
             and are not subject to the regulations of this section.
   H. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 249
   I. Scope of Approval. After a final decision on the variance is rendered, the Director may
      issue any applicable building permits and/or zoning certificates.
8-6-32:      Zoning Certificate
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to all properties within Ada County.
   B. Initiation. A zoning certificate application shall be submitted to the Director.
   C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   D. Notice. Not applicable.
   E. Decision
          1. The Director shall review the zoning certificate application and shall:
             a. Approve the application;
             b. Deny the application; or
             c. Approve the application with conditions.
          2. The Director shall not issue a zoning certificate for any use on a property that violates
             this Title or on a property that contains structures or uses that violate this Title, with
             the exception that a zoning certificate may be issued exclusively for the installation of
             solar panels on any existing detached structure constructed prior to January 1, 2000, or
             increased in size after January 1, 2000, regardless of its current zoning status. Any
             zoning certificate secured that violates state or federal law is invalid.
   F. Required Findings. The application for a zoning certificate shall comply with all
      applicable requirements of this Title and any applicable, unexpired conditions of a prior
      approval.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval
          1. No construction or alteration shall commence until the Director issues a zoning
             certificate. If no structures are involved, no use shall commence until the Director
             issues a zoning certificate.
          2. Any application that requires zoning certificate issuance as a condition of approval is
             complete with zoning certificate issuance. This provision applies to prior approved
             applications with issued zoning certificates.
          3. Zoning certificates issued in conjunction with a change of use that are not associated
             with a building permit expires if the new use does not commence within one year of
             zoning certificate issuance date.
          4. The zoning certificate may require inspections and approvals specified in the approval
             of the application.
          5. Upon determining that zoning certificate conditions are violated, the Director may
             require that all further work stop on a project until the violation is remedied.
8-6-33:      Zoning Ordinance Map Amendment



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 250
  A. Applicability. This Section applies to any application to amend the Zoning Ordinance
     Map.
  B. Initiation
     1. The Board may propose to amend the zoning ordinance map following notice,
        neighborhood meeting, and public hearing procedures in Sections 8-6-4, 8-6-8 and 8-
        6-9.
     2. Any property owner may propose a zoning ordinance map amendment to the Board.
     3. Zoning ordinance map amendment applications shall be submitted to the Director.
  C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
  D. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
  E. Decision
     1. Staff Review. The Director shall review the application and prepare and send a
        recommendation for the Commission’s review.
     2. Commission Review. The Commission shall review the application and submit its
        recommendation to the Board:
         a. To approve the zoning ordinance map amendment;
         b. To deny the zoning ordinance map amendment; or
         c. To approve the zoning ordinance map amendment with suggested changes.
     3. Board Decision. The Board shall make the final decision:
         a. To approve the zoning ordinance map amendment;
         b. To deny the zoning ordinance map amendment; or
         c. To approve the zoning ordinance map amendment with changes.
  F. Required Findings. To grant a zoning ordinance map amendment, the following findings
     must be made:
     1. The zoning ordinance map amendment conforms with the applicable comprehensive
        plan;
     2. The zoning ordinance map amendment complies with the regulations outlined for the
        proposed base district, specifically the purpose statement;
     3. The subject property shall meet the minimum dimensional standards of the proposed
        zoning district;
     4. The zoning ordinance map amendment shall not cause detriment to public health,
        safety, and welfare;
     5. The zoning ordinance map amendment shall not result in demonstrable adverse impacts
        upon the delivery of services by any political subdivision providing public services
        within the planning jurisdiction including school districts; and
     6. For zoning ordinance map amendments within a planned community (PC) base district,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 251
             the amendment complies with the planned community implementation plan.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval. The approval of a zoning ordinance map amendment does not
      authorize the development of land. A zoning ordinance map amendment allows property
      owners to apply for permits or actions that are consistent with the zoning district’s
      standards and requirements.
8-6-34:      Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment
   A. Applicability. This Section applies to any application to amend the text of the Zoning
      Ordinance.
   B. Initiation
          1. The Board may propose to amend the zoning ordinance text following notice,
             neighborhood meeting, and public hearing procedures in Sections 8-6-4, 8-6-8, and 8-
             6-9.
          2. Any property owner may propose a zoning ordinance text amendment to the Board.
          3. Zoning ordinance text amendment applications shall be submitted to the Director.
   C. Completeness. See Section 8-6-5.
   D. Notice. See Section 8-6-8.
   E. Decision
          1. Staff Review. The Director shall review the application and prepare and send a
             recommendation for the Commission’s review.
          2. Commission Review. The Commission shall review the application and submit its
             recommendation to the Board:
             a. To approve the zoning ordinance text amendment;
             b. To deny the zoning ordinance text amendment; or
             c. To approve the zoning ordinance text amendment with suggested changes.
          3. Board Decision. The Board shall make the final decision:
             a. To approve the zoning ordinance text amendment;
             b. To deny the zoning ordinance text amendment; or
             c. To approve the zoning ordinance text amendment with changes, subject to public
                notification of the changes per Section 8-6-8.
   F. Required Findings. The Board shall make following findings to grant a zoning ordinance
      text amendment:
          1. The zoning ordinance text amendment conforms with the applicable comprehensive
             plan;
          2. The zoning ordinance text amendment is not detrimental to public health, safety, and
             welfare; and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 252
         3. For zoning ordinance text amendments within a planned community (PC) base district,
            the amendment complies with the planned community implementation plan.
   G. Appeals. See Section 8-6-13.
   H. Scope of Approval. The approval of a zoning ordinance text amendment does not directly
      authorize the development of land. A zoning ordinance text amendment simply changes
      the Zoning Ordinance regulations.


                                           CHAPTER 7
                                     NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION
8-7-1:          PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
8-7-2:          NONCONFORMING USES
8-7-3:          NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES
8-7-4:          NONCONFORMING PROPERTIES
8-7-5:          NONCONFORMING SIGNS
8-7-1:      Purpose and Applicability
   A. Purpose. This Chapter governs uses, structures, properties, and other situations that legally
      came into existence prior to the effective date of this Zoning Ordinance or the effective
      date of future amendments to this Zoning Ordinance, but do not comply with or conform
      to one or more requirements of this Zoning Ordinance. Those situations are collectively
      referred to as “nonconformities.” Also, this Chapter allows any nonconforming property,
      use, or structure that was lawfully existing prior to the effective date of this Title to continue
      until they are removed, but not to encourage their continuation. Nonconformities shall not
      expand or extend the nonconforming aspect of the property, use, or structure, unless
      approved subject to the regulations of Chapter 6.
   B. Applicability. These regulations apply to any lawfully existing nonconforming property,
      use, or structure in Ada County. However, a property, use, or structure that was deemed
      nonconforming under past zoning regulations but now complies with this Title is deemed
      conforming.
   C. Deemed Conforming Property
         1. Applicability. These regulations apply to properties that:
            a. Were not created in accord with the regulations of this Title (an illegal division of
               property);
            b. That were of record in the Ada County recorder's office prior to January 1, 1985;
               and
            c. Have not changed their boundaries except by governmental action as specified in
               subsection 8-7-4B.
         2. Current Dimensional Standards. A deemed conforming property is eligible for
            building permits if it meets the dimensional standards for the base district in which it
            is now located.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 253
         3. Former Dimensional Standards or Dwelling Constructed. A deemed conforming
            property is eligible for building permits if it meets one of the following standards:
            a. The property met the dimensional standards for the applicable base district at the
               time it was created; or
            b. A dwelling was constructed or placed on the property prior to January 1, 1985.
               However, if the dwelling is subsequently damaged or destroyed by fire, flood,
               explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot, calamity or other catastrophic event after
               January 1, 1985, the property remains eligible for a building permit.
   D. Dwellings, Two or more Existing
         1. Any property that has two (2) or more existing dwellings that were built prior to May
            20, 1968, or were principal permitted dwellings approved in accordance with the zoning
            regulations that were in effect at the time those dwellings were built, is deemed a
            nonconforming use.
         2. Each dwelling is subject to the standards in Section 8-7-2 below.
8-7-2:      Nonconforming Uses
   A. Generally. The nonconforming use may continue if the use remains lawful and the use is
      not expanded or extended, unless approved subject to the regulations of Chapter 6.
   B. Definition. For the purposes of this Section, the term "expanded or extended" includes:
         1. Increased hours;
         2. Increased services or programs;
         3. Increased number of residential dwellings;
         4. Interior renovations or structural additions that increase the occupant load of the
            structure dedicated to the nonconforming use (see the Ada County Building Code);
         5. Any new structures accessory to the nonconforming use;
         6. Expansion or replacement of the structure (or portions thereof) dedicated to the
            nonconforming use;
         7. Anything beyond regular maintenance and minor repairs (as required by the Ada
            County Building Code); or
         8. Any action that extends the duration or intensity of the nonconforming use.
   C. Abandonment. A nonconforming use that ceases for ten (10) years or is replaced with a
      conforming use is deemed abandoned and shall not be reestablished. If nonuse or vacancy
      continues for at least one (1) year, the County may request resolution of the nonconforming
      use right according to procedures outlined in Idaho Code Section 67-6538(2).
   D. Damage
         1. A nonconforming use or structure housing a nonconforming use that is damaged by
            more than fifty percent (50%) of its current assessed taxable value by fire, flood,
            explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot, calamity, or other catastrophic event shall
            comply with this Title upon reconstruction.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 254
         2. If the damage to the nonconforming use or structure housing the nonconforming use is
            fifty percent (50%) or less of the current assessed taxable value, the nonconforming use
            may continue if construction or use commences within ten (10) years of the event.
         3. If nonuse or vacancy continues for at least one year, the County may request resolution
            of the nonconforming use right according to procedures outlined in Idaho Code Section
            67-6538(2).
   E. Exemption. Uses housed within structures listed on the national register of historic places
      are exempt from this Section.
8-7-3:      Nonconforming Structures
   A. Generally. Nonconforming structures may be enlarged or modified if the additions or
      modifications to the structure conform to this Title.
   B. Damage
         1. A nonconforming structure that is damaged more than seventy-five percent (75%) of
            its current assessed taxable value by fire, flood, explosion, wind, earthquake, war, riot,
            calamity, or other catastrophic event, shall comply with this Title upon restoration or
            reconstruction.
         2. If the damage to the nonconforming structure is seventy-five percent (75%) or less of
            the current assessed taxable value, the structure may be restored or reconstructed if the
            restoration or reconstruction commences within twelve (12) months of the event.
   C. Exemption. Structures listed on the national register of historic places are exempt from
      this Section.
8-7-4:      Nonconforming Properties
   A. Generally. A nonconforming property shall not be diminished in size.
   B. Reduction by Governmental Action. Any property reduced by governmental action that
      reduces an existing conforming parcel below the required lot size is deemed a conforming
      property for the purpose of development. To be deemed a conforming property, the
      following shall be submitted to the Development Services Department:
         1. Documentation the property followed the minimum property size requirement of the
            applicable zoning district prior to the decrease in property size; and
         2. Documentation the decrease in property size was caused by acquisition through
            prescription, purchase, or other means by Ada County, a municipality within Ada
            County, the Ada County Highway District, Idaho Transportation Department, utility
            company or corporation under the jurisdiction of the Idaho Public Utilities
            Commission, or other local, State, or Federal agency.
8-7-5:      Nonconforming Signs. Nonconforming signs are deemed a nonconforming use and/or
            structure (as applicable) and may continue subject to the standards established in this
            Chapter.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 255
                                           CHAPTER 8
                                         ENFORCEMENT
SECTION
8-8-1:          GENERALLY
8-8-2:          VIOLATIONS
8-8-3:          REMEDIES
8-8-1:      Generally
   A. Purpose. This Chapter provides measures to enforce Zoning Ordinance violations pursuant
      to Idaho Code Section 67-6527 or any other applicable authority.
   B. Applicability. This Chapter establishes:
         1. Procedures through which the County seeks to ensure compliance with the provisions
            of this Zoning Ordinance and obtain corrections for violations.
         2. The remedies and penalties that apply to Zoning Ordinance violations.
8-8-2:      Violations
   A. Authority. Idaho Code 67-6527 provides for enforcement of ordinances and regulations.
   B. Generally
         1. Conviction of a violation of this ordinance and regulations is a misdemeanor.
         2. Each day that work continues after a violation notification is a separate offense.
         3. Violations are punishable as provided in Idaho Code Section 18-113.
         4. A violation may be pursued through a civil action.
8-8-3:      Remedies
   A. Violation of Conditions of Approval
         1. This subsection applies to noncompliance with any conditions of approval.
         2. The Director shall provide due notice to the applicant/owner of the violation of any
            conditions of approval.
         3. If the violations continue, the Director may order a public hearing before the deciding
            body, in conformance with Chapters 6 and 9.
         4. At the public hearing, the deciding body may, in whole or in part:
            a. Affirm the approval;
            b. Reverse the approval;
            c. Modify the approval; or
            d. Make or substitute any additional conditions that it determines are warranted.
         5. To act except to affirm the approval, the deciding body must find there is a violation of
            the conditions of approval of an application within the authority of the deciding body
            and one or more of the following:



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 256
            a. The violation has caused or will cause detriment to the public health, safety, or
               welfare.
            b. The violation has created or will create undue adverse impact on surrounding
               properties.
            c. The violation has caused or will cause the approved use to be served by inadequate
               public or private facilities.
            d. The violation has impeded or will impede the normal development of surrounding
               property.


                                            CHAPTER 9
                                       ADMINISTRATION
SECTION
8-9-1:          PURPOSE
8-9-2:          BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
8-9-3:          PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
8-9-4:          DIRECTOR OF DEVELOPMENT SERVICES
8-9-5:          HISTORIC PRESERVATION
8-9-6:          COUNTY ENGINEER
8-9-7:          PROSECUTING ATTORNEY
8-9-8:          SHERIFF
8-9-9:          HEARINGS EXAMINER
8-9-1:      Purpose. This Chapter establishes and/or describes the responsibilities of decision-
making bodies for development activity in Ada County. Any actions authorized for any agency
requires transmittals, notice, public hearings, etc. as required by Chapter 6.
8-9-2:      Board of County Commissioners
   A. The Board is responsible for the enforcement and administration of this Zoning Ordinance
      including:
         1. Actions referenced in Chapter 8 of this Title.
         2. Withholding any zoning certificates on any property where structures or uses violate
            the Zoning Ordinance.
   B. The Board has the authority to act on the following agreements, applications, and petitions,
      all of which require a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission,
      transmittals to agencies and cities, notice to the public, and public hearing:
         1. Amendment to an area of city impact agreement (Title 9 of the County Code).
         2. Amendment to the comprehensive plan (text or map).
         3. Amendment to the zoning ordinance (text or map).
         4. Development agreement.
         5. Joint applications that require noticing and/or a public hearing as shown in Table 8-6-
            2-1.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 257
         6. Planned community implementation plan.
         7. Subdivision: preliminary plat.
   C. The Board has the authority to act on the following applications, all of which require
      transmittals to agencies, notice to the public, and a public hearing by the Board:
         1. Appeal.
         2. Joint applications that require noticing and/or public hearing as shown in Table 8-6-2-
            1.
         3. Time extension.
         4. Variance.
   D. The Board has the authority to act on final subdivision plats at an open meeting of the
      Board.
   E. The Board has the authority to appoint a Hearings Examiner, pursuant to Idaho Code
      Section 67-6520.
8-9-3:      Planning and Zoning Commission
   A. The Commission has jurisdiction and authority to:
         1. Provide for citizen meetings, hearings, surveys, or other methods to obtain advice on
            the planning process, comprehensive plan, and implementation;
         2. Conduct informational meetings and consult with public officials and agencies, public
            utility companies, and civic, educational, professional, or other organizations;
         3. Promote a public interest in and understanding of the Commission's activities;
         4. Make recommendations to the Board concerning the comprehensive plan, planning
            process, or implementation of the comprehensive plan;
         5. Enter upon any property (with the consent of the owner) to:
            a. Make examinations and surveys; and
            b. Place and maintain necessary monuments and marks; and
         6. Hear applications under the authority of the Hearings Examiner (see Section 8-9-9) if
            a Hearings Examiner is not appointed by the Board.
         7. The Commission shall hear final plats subject to its review authority at an open
            meeting.
   B. The Commission has the authority to act on the following applications, all of which require
      transmittals to agencies, notice to the public, and a public hearing before the Commission:
         1. Conditional use.
         2. Joint applications that require noticing and/or a public hearing as shown in Table 8-6-
            2-1.
   C. The Commission has the authority to make a recommendation to the Board on the
      following applications or petitions, all of which shall require transmittals to agencies and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 258
         cities, notice to the public, and a public hearing before the Commission:
         1. Amendment to an area of city impact agreement (Title 9 of the County Code).
         2. Amendment to the comprehensive plan (text or map).
         3. Amendment to the zoning ordinance (text or map).
         4. Joint applications that require noticing and/or a public hearing as shown in Table 8-6-
            2-1.
         5. Planned community implementation plan.
         6. Subdivision: preliminary plat.
8-9-4:      Director of Development Services
   A. The Director shall provide information to the public on planning, zoning, building, and
      engineering matters.
   B. The Director has authority to receive and examine applications including:
         1. Entering upon any property (with the consent of the owner) to:
            a. Make examinations and surveys; and
            b. Place and maintain necessary monuments and marks.
         2. Maintaining records of all materials and correspondence related to land use
            applications;
         3. Transmitting to outside agencies and providing written notice to surrounding property
            owners on all Commission and Board hearings;
         4. Maintaining records of the Commission and Board hearings and actions;
         5. Transmitting to the Commission or Board all applications, petitions, and other
            communications upon which the Commission or Board is required to act;
         6. Issuing zoning certificates; and
         7. Receiving applications pursuant to Chapter 6.
   C. The Director shall act on the following applications that do not require transmittal to
      outside agencies or notice to surrounding property owners:
         1. Accessory Use Approval, Zoning Certificate Required
         2. Farm Development Right
         3. Financing Verification Application
         4. Floodplain Permit
         5. Landscaping And Screening Plan
         6. Lighting Plan
         7. Onetime Division of Property
         8. Planned Community Landscape Plan



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 259
         9. Planned Community Periodic Review
         10. Property Boundary Adjustment
         11. Sign Plan
         12. Temporary Use Approval, Zoning Certificate Required
         13. Time Extension, Administrative
         14. Zoning Certificate
   D. The Director shall transmit to outside agencies, provide written notice to surrounding
      property owners, and act on the following applications:
         1. Accessory Use Approval, Zoning Certificate and Administrative Approval Required
         2. Expansion or Extension of Nonconforming Use or Structure
         3. Joint Applications as shown in Table 8-6-2-1
         4. Master Site Plan
         5. Private Road
         6. Temporary Use Approval, Zoning Certificate and Administrative Approval Required
8-9-5:      Historic Preservation
   A. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to promote the educational, cultural, economic,
      and general welfare of the public of Ada County through the identification, evaluation,
      designation, and protection of those buildings, sites, areas, structures, and objects which
      reflect significant elements of the County's, the state’s, and the nation's historic,
      architectural, archaeological, and cultural heritage.
   B. Council Created
         1. There is hereby created a historic preservation council which shall consist of members
            who shall be appointed by the Board. The number of members shall be set by the
            bylaws of the council and shall be consistent with the standards set for participation in
            the national park services' certified local government program and Idaho Code Section
            67-4601 et seq., as may be amended and/or retitled in the future.
         2. All members of the council shall have a demonstrated interest, competence, or
            knowledge in history or historic preservation. The Board shall endeavor to appoint at
            least two (2) members with professional training or experience in the disciplines of
            architecture, history, architectural history, urban planning, archaeology, engineering,
            law, or other historic preservation related disciplines.
         3. All appointments shall be made for three (3) year terms. Council members may be
            reappointed to serve additional terms. Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as
            original appointments and the appointee shall serve for a full term.
   C. Organization and Administration
         1. The Council shall have the power to make whatever rules are necessary for the
            execution of its duties as set forth in this Chapter. Rules of procedure and bylaws
            adopted by the council shall be available for public inspection. Changes to bylaws shall


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 260
         be approved by the Board after adoption by the council.
     2. The council shall elect a chairman and vice chairman from among the council members.
        The chairman shall preside at meetings of the council. The vice chairman shall, in the
        absence of the chairman, perform the duties of the chairman.
     3. All meetings of the council shall be open to the public and follow the requirements of
        Idaho's open meeting laws. The council shall keep minutes and other appropriate
        written records of its resolutions, proceedings, and actions.
     4. The council may recommend to the Board the employment of or the contracting with
        other parties for the services of technical experts or other persons, to assist the council
        in its functions.
  D. Powers, Duties and Responsibilities. The council shall be advisory to the Board and shall
     be authorized to:
     1. Conduct a survey of local historic properties.
     2. Recommend the acquisition, by the County, of fee simple and lesser interests in historic
        properties, including adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequest, or donation.
     3. Recommend methods and procedures necessary to preserve, restore, maintain and
        operate historic properties under the ownership or control of the County.
     4. Recommend that the lease, sale, or other transfer or disposition of historic properties
        be made subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a manner that will
        preserve the property.
     5. Draft and submit to the Board for approval, contracts with the state or federal
        government, or any agency of either, or with any other organization.
     6. Cooperate with the federal, state, and local governments in the pursuance of the
        objectives of historic preservation.
     7. Make recommendations and otherwise participate in the planning processes undertaken
        by cities, the County, the state, or the federal government and related agencies.
     8. Recommend ordinances to the County and otherwise provide information for the
        purposes of historic preservation in the County.
     9. Promote and conduct educational and interpretive programs on historic preservation
        and historic properties in the County.
     10. Enter private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of its official duties,
         but only with the express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
     11. Review nominations of properties, within the County's jurisdiction, to the National
         Register of Historic Places and provide comments to the state historic preservation
         office.
     12. Nominate properties within the County's jurisdiction to the National Register of
         Historic Places.
     13. Review requests for demolition of any structure fifty (50) years old or older for
         historical significance prior to the issuance of a demolition permit.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 261
8-9-6:       County Engineer
   A. The County Engineer shall administer engineering matters.
   B. The County Engineer shall provide information to the public on engineering matters.
   C. The County Engineer may examine the following applications:
          1. Floodplain permit.
          2. Modification or expansion to an approved conditional use.
          3. Modification or expansion to an approved master site plan.
          4. One time division of a property.
          5. Property boundary adjustment.
          6. Expansion or extension of nonconforming use or structure.
          7. Joint applications as shown in Table 8-6-2-1.
          8. Master site plan.
          9. Private road.
          10. Subdivision of property.
8-9-7:      Prosecuting Attorney. The Prosecuting Attorney of Ada County has the authority to
enforce this Zoning Ordinance as set forth in Idaho Code and this County Code.
8-9-8:      Sheriff. The Ada County Sheriff has the authority to enforce this Zoning Ordinance
as set forth in Idaho Code and this County Code.
8-9-9:    Hearings Examiner. The Hearings Examiner has the authority to enforce this Zoning
Ordinance as set forth in Idaho Code and this County Code.


                                            CHAPTER 10
                     RULES OF INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
8-10-1:          PURPOSE AND GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION
8-10-2:          DEFINED TERMS
8-10-3:          ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
8-10-1:      Purpose and General Rules of Interpretation
   A. Purpose. This Chapter describes the general rules of interpretation and provides definitions
      for those terms used in the Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
   B. Language
          1. Terminology. When used in this Title, all words used in the present tense shall include
             the future; words used in the singular number shall include the plural number and the
             plural the singular, unless the natural construction of the sentence indicates otherwise.
             The word "shall" is mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive.
          2. Number of Days. Whenever a number of days is specified in this Title, or in any

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 262
          permit, condition of approval, or notice issued or given as provided in this Title, the
          number of days are construed as calendar days, except that those time limits shall
          extend to the following working day when the last of the specified number of days falls
          on a weekend or Ada County holiday.
      3. Section Headings. Section headings or captions are for reference purposes only and
         shall not be used in the interpretation of this Title.
      4. References. All references to state or federal laws and/or regulations shall refer to such
         laws and/or regulations as they may be amended over time.
   C. Measurements
      1. Structure height is measured as the vertical distance from the average contact ground
         level at the front wall of a building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, the
         deck line of a mansard roof, or the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip
         roof.
      2. Linear distance is measured in a horizontal line. It is not measured along an inclined
         surface or line. For uses that have a separation standard, the distance is measured from
         the nearest customer entrance of the proposed use to the nearest property line of the
         specified use. This measurement is conducted in a radial fashion by the specified
         number of feet (e.g., 300 feet, 1,000 feet). Illumination levels are measured with a
         calibrated photoelectric photometer or similar device capable of accurate measurement
         of light.
      3. Noise levels are measured at the property line with a calibrated noise meter or similar
         device capable of accurate measurement of sound. See Figure 8-10-1-1 Noise
         Measurement.

Figure 8-10-1-1 Noise Measurement




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 263
   D. District Boundaries. Where uncertainty exists about the location of any district boundary
      shown on the official zoning map, the following rules are used to resolve the uncertainty:
          1. Where a district boundary approximately follows a property line, that property line is
             construed as the district boundary.
          2. Where a district boundary approximately follows a street, alley, or railroad line, that
             street, alley, centerline, or the extension of that line, is construed as the district
             boundary. Where a street or alley is officially vacated and that street or alley has not
             been given a zoning designation, the land that was formerly in the vacated street or
             alley shall have the same designation as the abutting property on either side of the
             centerline of the vacated street or alley.
          3. Where a district boundary approximately follows a watercourse, the centerline of the
             watercourse is construed as that boundary. If a change in the watercourse shoreline, the
             boundary is construed as moving with the actual centerline.
          4. Where a district boundary does not obviously coincide with any of the above lines
             (property; street, alley, or railroad line; watercourse), or where it is not designated by
             dimensions, it is located along nearest section, a quarter section, or a sixteenth section
             line.
8-10-2:      Defined Terms
ABANDONED: To cease or discontinue a use of activity for twelve (12) months unless an active
building permit has been issued.
ABUT OR ABUTTING: Having a common border with the subject property, which may include
public right of way.
ACCESS: Ingress/egress to a property, parcel, or lot.
ACCESSORY OFFICE: An accessory use involving any office related functions to a primary use.
ACCESSORY OUTDOOR STORAGE: An accessory use involving the outdoor storage of
materials, supplies, and products to a primary use.
ACCESSORY POWER FACILITY: A wind facility or solar facility where electricity is primarily
produced for use on site with excess supplied to a power grid. The generation capacity shall be one
hundred (100) kilowatts or less.
ACCESSORY RETAIL SALES: The sale, distribution, presentation, demonstration, or supply of
goods to consumers through or at a retail store.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached structure in a rural or residential base district that is
incidental and subordinate to the principal structure and is located upon the same property.
(Hallways, tunnels, breezeways, porticos, and similar connections shall not constitute an
attachment to the principal permitted dwelling.) The term accessory structure shall include, but not
be limited to, the following: private garage, storage structure, workshop, greenhouse, and/or a
structure that houses a detached secondary dwelling. The term shall not include additional
structures for approved public, commercial, or industrial uses.
ACCESSORY USE: A use that is incidental and subordinate to the principal or approved
conditional use and is conducted upon the same property. For the purposes of this Title, temporary


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 264
uses specified in Sections 8-4-73 and 8-6-29 of this Title shall be deemed accessory uses.
ADDITIONAL FARM DWELLING: A dwelling that complies with the requirements for a
“Dwelling, Additional Farm” in Chapter 4.
ADULT BOOTH: A separate enclosure within a structure featuring adult entertainment or adult
material. The term adult booth does not include a restroom or a foyer through which any person
can enter or exit the establishment.
ADULT CABARET: An establishment that features adult entertainment.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT: Material or performances distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to ‘Specified Sexual Activities’ or ‘Specified
Anatomical Areas’ for observation by its patrons or limits the presentation of those materials to
persons over eighteen (18) years of age. This definition does not apply to a legitimate theatrical
performance where nudity is only incidental to the primary purpose of the performance. For the
purposes of this definition:
       1. “Specified Sexual Activities" are defined as:
           a. human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
           b. acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy;
           c. fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock, or female
              breast.
       2. “Specified Anatomical Areas” are defined as:
           a. less than completely and opaquely covered:
               1. human genitals, pubic region,
               2. buttock, and
               3. female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and
               4. human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely and
                  opaquely covered.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: A place where adult entertainment occurs,
where adult material is available, an adult cabaret, adult booth, adult modeling or display
establishment, adult motel, or adult theater.
ADULT MATERIAL: One or more of the following materials that have as their primary or
dominant theme matter depicting, illustrating, describing, or relating to adult entertainment,
regardless of whether it is new or used:
       1. books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter;
       2. photographs, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other visual
          representations;
       3. recordings or other audio matter.
The term adult material shall also include instruments, novelties, devices, or paraphernalia that are
designed for use in connection with adult entertainment.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 265
ADULT MODELING OR DISPLAY ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment whose employees
engage in adult entertainment or adult private modeling.
ADULT MOTEL: Any motel, hotel, boarding house, rooming house, or other place of temporary
lodging that includes the word "adult" or "erotic" in any name it uses, or otherwise provides or
advertises adult entertainment or adult material.
ADULT PRIVATE MODELING: Modeling, posing, exhibition, display, or exposure by an
employee relating to adult entertainment before a nonemployee while the nonemployee is in an
area not accessible to all other persons in the establishment, or while the nonemployee is in an area
either totally or partially screened or partitioned during such display from the view of all persons
outside the area. The term "private performance" is considered private modeling.
ADULT THEATER: An establishment consisting of an enclosed structure, or a portion or part of
an enclosed structure, or an open-air area where a person may view adult material or adult
entertainment. Generally, the adult material or adult entertainment is prerecorded material.
ADULT VIDEO OR BOOK STORE: An establishment that sells or rents adult material; however,
any establishment meeting all the following criteria shall not be considered an adult video or
bookstore:
       1. The adult material is accessible only by employees.
       2. The individual items of adult material offered for sale and/or rental comprise less than
          ten percent (10%) of the individual items publicly displayed at the establishment as
          stock in trade in the following categories: videos, books, magazines, periodicals, other
          printed matter, slides, other visual representations, recordings, and other audio matter.
       3. The establishment does not use the following terms in advertisements or other
          promotional activities relating to the adult materials: "XXX," "XX," "X," or any series
          of the letter "X" whether or not interspersed with other letters, figures, or characters;
          "erotic" or deviations of that word; "adult entertainment" or similar phrases; "sex" or
          "sexual acts" or similar phrases; "nude" or "nudies" or similar phrases; or any other
          letters, words, or phrases that promote the purchase or rental of adult material.
AGRICULTURAL LAND, PRIME: Land that contains class I, II, or III agricultural soils as
defined by the land capability classification assigned by the Natural Resources Conservation
Service of the United States Department of Agriculture.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE STAND: An establishment for the display and sale to the general
public of "produce" as defined in this Section, which produce has been grown on the premises on
a seasonal basis. No other commodities may be sold.
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE: An activity that provides support for agriculture and forestry as
classified by the U.S. Census Bureau "North American Industrial Classification System." The term
shall include agricultural service composting. The use must serve a rural district with agricultural
use.
AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE: A structure on a "farm," excluding any dwelling or any
structure that shelters any personal items not directly needed for agricultural uses.
AGRICULTURAL USE: Activities that take place on a "farm," as herein defined, that are
classified by the Ada County Assessor's Office tax categories of 010, 020, 030, 040, and/or 050.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 266
The application of fertilizer or process wastewater at agronomic rates shall be deemed a component
of the agricultural use.
AGRITAINMENT: Events and activities (such as corn mazes, hayrides, and petting zoos, that
allow for recreation, entertainment, and tourism in conjunction with agriculture support and
services) that are directly associated with an ongoing agricultural use on-site.
AGRONOMIC RATE: The application of fertilizer or other crop supplements: a) at rates whereby
the nutrients are fully taken up by the crop or stored in the soil, and b) in a manner that does not
negatively impact the waters of the state.
AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD (PRIVATE): A privately owned area of land that is used or
intended for the landing and takeoff of aircraft, including the necessary accessory structures or
facilities for storing and maintenance of aircraft.
AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREAS: The areas surrounding the Boise air terminal that are affected
by significant aircraft noise and safety hazards, as set forth in Section 8-2-24 of this Title.
AIRPORT: Any area of land or water which is used or intended for the landing and taking off of
aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used or intended for use for airport buildings or other
airport facilities or rights-of-way. This includes all necessary runways, taxiways, aircraft storage
and tie-down areas, hangers, public terminal buildings and parking, helicopter pads, support
activities such as airport operations and air traffic control, and other necessary buildings and open
spaces. Includes dusting services. For purposes of this definition, “aircraft" means a device that is
used or intended to be used for flight in the air, such as an airplane or helicopter.
ALIQUOT: The length of one side of a quarter-quarter section (1/16). The one-sixteenth (1/16)
section contains forty (40) acres, more or less.
ALTERNATIVE FUEL: A fuel that is used primarily to power combustion engines that includes,
but is not limited to, biodiesel, electricity, ethanol, hydrogen, methanol, natural gas and propane.
AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA: The supporting towers and antenna structure necessary for
broadcast from a radio communication service for the purpose of self-training,
intercommunication, and technical investigation carried out by amateurs, that is, duly authorized
persons interested in radio technique solely with a personal aim and without commercial interest.
AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT: 42 U.S.C. Chapter 126 and 28 CFR Part 36 (Part 36
Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Disability in Public Accommodations and Commercial
Facilities), and Standards and Specifications, 2010 ADA Standards for Accessible Design (United
States Department of Justice, September 15, 2010), Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities.
AMUSEMENT OR RECREATION, INDOOR: An establishment engaged in providing
amusement, recreation, or entertainment. Indoor amusement or recreation facility shall include, but
not be limited to, pool hall, billiard parlor, theater, health club, spa, fitness facility, nightclub, or
skating rink.
AMUSEMENT OR RECREATION, OUTDOOR: An establishment engaged in providing
amusement, recreation, or entertainment. Outdoor amusement or recreation facility shall include,
but not be limited to, amusement park, miniature golf, golf driving range (that is not accessory to
a golf course), drive-in theater, tennis court, football, soccer, rugby, or hockey field, skatepark, or
swimming pool.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 267
ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (AFO): A "livestock confinement facility," as herein defined,
with more than three hundred (300) animal units, and where the animal confinement areas do not
sustain crops, vegetation, forage growth, or postharvest residues in the normal growing season as
generally described in 40 CFR (code of Federal Regulations) 122.23(b)(1). Two (2) or more
abutting AFOs under common ownership shall be considered a single AFO. Two (2) or more AFOs
that are operated as a single facility shall be considered a single AFO if it is determined by the
Director that they significantly link operations including, but not limited to, shared storage or
treatment systems or shared equipment.
ANIMAL UNIT: A unit of measurement for livestock confinement facilities calculated by adding
the following numbers: the combined weight of all dairy cattle divided by one thousand three
hundred fifty (1,350); plus the combined weight of all other cattle divided by one thousand four
hundred (1,400); plus the combined weight of all swine divided by six hundred (600); plus the
combined weight of all sheep divided by one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250); plus the
combined weight of all goats divided by one thousand (1,000); plus the combined weight of all
horses divided by one thousand five hundred (1,500); plus the combined weight of all chickens
divided by three hundred fifty (350); plus the combined weight of all turkeys divided by five
hundred (500); plus the combined weight of all ducks divided by two hundred (200). Where an
AU is not specifically defined in this Title for an animal, an appropriate AU shall be determined
by the Director with advice from the Idaho department of agriculture.
ANTENNA: Any system of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs, or similar devices used for the
collection, transmission, radiation, or reception of electromagnetic waves, external to or attached
to the exterior of any structure. This includes both directional antennas, such as panels and
microwave dishes, and omnidirectional antennas, such as whips and satellite dishes, but not
including satellite earth stations.
ANTENNA HUB SITE: An area containing one or more unmanned equipment structures sited to
serve telecommunications antennas. An antenna hub site may be located on the same lot as the
antennas served or located on a lot that does not contain the antennas served.
ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A self-supporting or bracketed ground-mounted pole sixty
(60) feet or less in height that is accessory to and used to support one or more telecommunications
antennas and no more than one related unmanned equipment structure.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family development for sale, rent, lease, let,
or hire to be used as a single dwelling.
APPEAL: A request for a review of any decision by the Ada County Director or the Planning and
Zoning Commission in applying the Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
APPELLANT: A party of record or other person who is entitled by law to appeal and who initiates
an appeal.
APPLICANT: The person or entity seeking an approval of an application required by this Title,
including a decision from the Director or the Board, or a decision or recommendation from the
Commission. The “applicant” includes the owner of the property subject to an application.
APPLICATION: The document utilized by a person seeking approval for an act under this Title.
APPROVED USE: A use that has been approved.
AREA OF CITY IMPACT: Those unincorporated areas of Ada County surrounding each


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 268
incorporated city as identified in Title 9 of this code, in accord with Idaho Code Section 67-6526.
ASPHALT OR CONCRETE READY-MIX PLANT: A central proportioning and mixing plant for
the production of an aggregate product such as asphalt or concrete.
AUCTION: Premises on which merchandise is stored on a temporary basis to be sold through an
on-site auction.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any area, lot, land, or parcel where more than two (2) motor
vehicles without current registration or more than two (2) inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles
that are not in operating condition (or parts thereof) are: a) standing more than thirty (30) days, b)
dismantled, or c) stored. The following uses are excluded from this definition: agricultural
equipment on a "farm" as herein defined, automotive hobby as set forth in Section 8-4-8 of this
Title, and vehicles stored or dismantled within a completely enclosed structure.
AUTOMOTIVE, HOBBY: An accessory use involving the restoration, maintenance, and/or
preservation of not more than two (2) vehicles at any one time.
BAR: A structure used primarily for the sale or dispensing of liquor by the drink or glass, but not
including restaurants where the principal business is serving food.
BARRIER: A vertical element including, but not limited to, a fence, wall, structure, or a
combination thereof, that completely surrounds an area and controls access to such area.
BASE DISTRICT: The zone district classification, listed in Section 8-2-3 of this Title, in effect on
any given property.
BEACON: Any light with one or more beams directed into the atmosphere or directed at one or
more points not on the same property as the light source; also, any light with one or more beams
that rotate or move.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: An owner-occupied dwelling providing overnight
accommodations and breakfast food service for no more than ten (10) occupants, including the
owner and owner’s family.
BERM: A raised landform designed to provide visual interest, screen undesirable views, and/or
decrease noise.
BICYCLE PARKING FACILITIES: Any area or necessary equipment to store bicycles on a short-
or long-term basis. Bicycle parking facilities include spaces, racks, lockers, cages, and secured
parking locations.
BILLBOARD: A permanent, off-premises sign or sign structure on which a person places copy on
a poster or panel mounted on a pole or metal structure. Typically, a billboard has one of the
following configurations:
       1. wood posts or pole supports with dimensional lumber as the secondary support (A-
          frame) with a wood or metal catwalk with display panels,
       2. steel A-frame constructed with angle iron or steel supports with metal framing, catwalk,
          with display panels,
       3. multi-mast structure constructed with steel poles, I-beam, or equivalent member as the
          primary support, with a catwalk, and display panels, or
       4. monopole structure constructed with tubular steel support, tubular steel framing, metal

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 269
           catwalk, and display panels with a concrete foundation.
BIOMASS FACILITY: A type of power facility that converts the energy stored in renewable
organic material into electricity. Renewable organic materials used in the conversion process
include, but are not limited to, wood, crops, animal waste, garbage, landfill gas, biogas, and alcohol
fuels.
BLANKETING: A term applicable to signs or sign structures where the partial or complete
shutting off of the face of one sign by another sign.
BLOCK: A piece of land or group of lots within a platted subdivision.
BOARD: Board of Ada County Commissioners.
BOARDING HOUSE: An establishment with individual rooms where meals and lodging are
provided for, with or without compensation, to more than two (2) but not more than ten (10)
persons. A boarding house shall include, but not be limited to, a rooming house, shelter, convent,
monastery, dormitory, fraternity house, sorority house, or any group of individuals whose
association is temporary or seasonal in nature. Hotels, motels, multi-family developments, and bed
and breakfast establishments are not considered boarding houses.
BREWERY: An establishment that brews thirty thousand (30,000) barrels of beer or more
annually and as defined by Idaho Code Section 23-1003. The use may include the ancillary sale or
dispensing of beer or malt liquor by the drink or glass.
BREWPUB or DISTILLERY: A brewpub is an establishment that brews less than thirty thousand
(30,000) barrels of beer annually and as defined by Idaho Code Section 23-1003. A distillery is
an establishment that produces spirits, as defined by Idaho Code Section 23-105. A brewery or
distillery may include a restaurant, sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink or glass, and/or retail
sale of the products of the brewery or distillery.
BUFFER: A combination of physical space and vertical elements, including, but not limited to,
plants, berms, fences, and/or walls that separate and screen incompatible land uses from one
another.
BUILDING AREA: This is expressed as the maximum per building, in gross floor area (gfa). The
building area is determined using the methodology established in the Ada County Building Code.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: The area on a property exclusive of required yards and unbuildable
areas (including, but not limited to, slopes in excess of twenty-five percent (25%) and areas within
a designated floodway).
BUILDING FACE: Where sign size is prescribed as a percent of building face area, the “building
face area” is a continuous portion of a building facade, as viewed by a person approaching the
building from the public right-of-way, consisting of a plane surface including the parapet wall but
excluding any appurtenances, such as columns, pilasters, canopies, marquees, showcases, or
decorations.
BUILDING HEIGHT: Building height is measured as the vertical distance from the average
ground level at the front wall of a building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, the deck
line of a mansard roof, or the average height of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
BUILDING MARKER: Any sign indicating the name of a structure, a date, or other incidental
information about its construction cut into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 270
material.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the administration
and enforcement of the Ada County Building Code, or the building official's duly authorized
representative.
CALENDAR DAY: Sunday through Saturday, including all holidays.
CALIPER: A measurement of the diameter of the trunk of a deciduous tree. The caliper of the
trunk shall be measured six inches (6") above the ground for all trees up to and including four-inch
(4") caliper size, and twelve inches (12") above the ground for larger sizes.
CAMPGROUND: An area or tract of land that accommodates one or more temporary residential
uses, including, but not limited to, cabins, tents, campers, travel trailers, motor homes, and/or
recreational vehicles.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM (CIP): A plan that describes when urban public
facilities will be built, how much they will cost, and the source of funding. A CIP usually covers a
period of between three (3) and ten (10) years.
CAR WASH: An establishment or area that provides facilities for washing and cleaning vehicles,
which may use production line methods with a conveyor, blower, or other mechanical devices, and
that may employ some hand labor. The facility may include vacuums and drying areas as accessory
uses.
CARETAKER DWELLING: See Dwelling, Caretaker.
CELL TOWER HEIGHT: The distance from the finished grade at the tower base to the highest
point of the tower, plus twenty (20) feet to accommodate additional antenna colocation.
CEMETERY: A place dedicated to, used and intended to be used for, the permanent interment of
the human dead, and may include a burial plot for earth interments, a mausoleum for vault or crypt
interments, a crematory, or a crematory and columbarium for cinerary interments, or a combination
of one or more of the above.
CENTRALIZED POWER FACILITY: A geothermal, solar, biomass, or hydroelectric power
facility where electricity is produced with a capacity greater than one hundred (100) kilowatts and
is transmitted to other locations for consumption. This includes all buildings and structures on the
site that are used to generate power, including power generators, equipment, and other structures
that are located on-site.
CHILDREN'S TREATMENT FACILITY: An establishment, or portion thereof, that: a) provides
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation for more than eight (8)
juveniles under eighteen (18) years old, and b) provides treatment for substance abuse, mental
illness, emotional disturbance, developmental disability, mental retardation, or juveniles who have
been identified by the judicial system as requiring treatment, therapy, rehabilitation, or
supervision. For purposes of this Title, this definition shall include group foster homes with more
than thirteen (13) juveniles.
CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE: An area at the intersection of two (2) streets that is clear of sight
obstructions to motorists (see Figures 10-2-1a and 10-2-1b).




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 271
Figure 10-2-1a Clear Vision Triangle




Figure 10-2-2b Clear Vision Triangle – Height Standards




CLIENT: For purposes of the day care (day care center; day care home, family; and day care
facility, group) and group foster home definitions, a “client” is a person who receives direct care
from providers at a day care facility, or a group foster home.
CLINIC (DENTAL OR MEDICAL): A facility (including any room, studio, clinic, suite, or
building) where individuals licensed in the State practice medicine, osteopathy, dentistry,
chiropractic, podiatry, physical therapy, psychiatry, clinical psychology, or other health-related
professions on an out-patient basis. This does not include a hospital, veterinary service, or animal
hospital.
COLLOCATION: The use of a single structure to support more than one wireless
telecommunication service provider's equipment, or the mounting of an antenna to a preexisting
structure.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle defined by Idaho Code Section 49-123.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of Ada County, Idaho.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 272
COMPOSTING FACILITY: A facility for the production of compost intended for use on premises
other than where the compost is produced. This does not include wood chipping activities that
result wood bark sales on-and-off site, as this is not a fertilizer.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The duly adopted comprehensive plan for a political subdivision of
the state of Idaho pursuant to the "Local Land Use Planning Act," Idaho Code Section 67-6501 et
seq., as amended.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use that, owing to some special characteristics, attendant to its operation
or installation (for example, potential danger, hours of operation, or noise), is permitted in a district
only subject to approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and subject to special
requirements as enabled by Idaho Code Section 67-6512.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate in real property as defined in Idaho Code Section 55-101B that is
not a subdivision.
CONFINEMENT AREAS: Any area or structure where livestock and/or poultry are stabled,
confined, gathered, fed, maintained, and/or milked and where such areas do not sustain crops,
vegetation, forage growth, or postharvest residues in the normal growing season.
CONSERVATION EASEMENT: A nonpossessory interest of a holder in real property imposing
limitations or affirmative obligations, the purposes of which include retaining or protecting natural,
scenic, or open space values of real property, assuring its availability for agricultural, forest,
recreational, or open space use, protecting natural resources, maintaining or enhancing air or water
quality, or preserving the historical, architectural, archaeological, or cultural aspects of real
property.
CONSOLIDATION: The process of combining two parcels of land into one. This is not a
subdivision process.
CONTIGUOUS PARCELS: Un-platted parcels held in one ownership that abut each other at a
common boundary. See also Section 8-3-2D of this Title.
CONTINUING CARE FACILITY: A building or structure used for any of the following:
        1. Congregate Living Facility: an establishment that provides independent living
           affiliated with or located near health care facilities. This also includes children's
           treatment facilities.
        2. Adult Assisted Living: an establishment for people who cannot live independently and
           who need assistance with daily chores and housekeeping.
        3. Nursing Home: an establishment for individuals who require specialized nursing care
           on a regular basis but who do not need to be hospitalized. This use also includes
           residential care facilities and adult respite health care centers.
        4. Skilled Nursing Facility: An establishment that provides permanent provisions for
           living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation and that provides healthcare needs to
           more than eight (8) individuals who, at a minimum, require: a) inpatient care and
           services for twenty-four (24) or more consecutive hours for unstable chronic health
           problems, b) daily professional nursing supervision and licensed nursing care on a
           twenty-four (24) hour basis, and c) restorative, rehabilitative care and assistance in
           meeting daily living needs. Medical supervision may be necessary on a regular, but not


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 273
           daily, basis. A skilled nursing facility shall include, but not be limited to: convalescent
           home, intermediate care, and subacute care.
       5. Residential Care Facility: An establishment that provides permanent provisions for
          living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation and that provides twenty-four (24) hour
          nonmedical care for more than eight (8) individuals who need personal care or
          assistance and supervision. A residential care facility shall include, but not be limited
          to, assisted living facility, retirement home, and respite care.
CONTINUOUS SERVICE DRIVE: A privately owned and maintained continuous drive
providing for ingress and egress to a public road, internal vehicle circulation, and emergency
access in a multi-family, commercial or industrial development.
CONTRACTOR YARD: Any area of land used by a contractor for storage, maintenance, or
processing incidental to the business of building, hauling, excavation, demolition, or similar
activity and including any area of land used for the incidental repair of machinery used for any of
the above listed activities.
CONTRACTOR: A person who agrees to furnish materials or perform services at a specified price,
especially for construction. The term contractor shall include, but not be limited to, building,
landscaping, electrical, plumbing, heating, or air conditioning contractors.
COUNTY CODE: The Ada County, Idaho, Code of Ordinances. This term may also be referred
to as “Code.”
COUNTY ENGINEER: That licensed in the state of Idaho professional engineer appointed by the
Board who is responsible for all engineering matters for Ada County.
COUNTY SURVEYOR: That licensed in the state of Idaho professional land surveyor appointed
by the Board to check plats and monuments for compliance with platting and surveying laws,
provide for surveying monument records, and make such surveys,
descriptions, maps, and plats as ordered by the Board.
COUNTY: Ada County, Idaho.
COVERAGE: The area of a property occupied by the footprint of all structures.
CREMATORY: A facility used primarily for human funeral services, which may or may not
include facilities on the premises for embalming and performing of autopsies or other surgical
procedures. This facility conducts cremation or incineration for deceased individuals.
CUTOFF ANGLE: The angle formed by a line drawn from the direction of light rays at the light
source and a line perpendicular to the ground from the light source, above which the light is
emitted.
DAIRY: An operation whose principal function is the production of milk, including the barn,
processing facility, or feeding area where dairy animals are kept, raised, or fed.
DANGEROUS OR PROTECTED ANIMAL: Any species for which the state or federal
government has established specific regulations regarding such animal including, but not limited
to, big cats, bears, raptors, large reptiles, and other wildlife. The term shall not include any species
commonly recognized as domestic pets.
DANGEROUS OR PROTECTED ANIMAL FACILITY: A building, structure, or enclosure


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 274
where dangerous or protected animals are maintained, harbored, possessed, trained, bred, boarded,
or cared for.
DAY-NIGHT AVERAGE SOUND LEVEL (DNL): The 24-hour average sound level, in decibels,
for the period from midnight to midnight, obtained after the addition of ten decibels to sound levels
for the periods between midnight and 7 a.m., and between 10 p.m., and midnight, local time. The
symbol for DNL is Ldn. [Source: 14 C.F.R. § 150.7]
DAY CARE CENTER: A place or facility providing day care for compensation for thirteen (13)
or more clients. Day camps, day programs and religious schools held for more than two (2) weeks
during a calendar year or held more often than once a week, are considered day care centers. The
provision of occasional care exclusively for clients of parents who are simultaneously in the same
building is not considered a day care center.
DAY CARE HOME, FAMILY: A home, place, or facility providing care and supervision for
compensation for part of a day, for six (6) or fewer clients not related by blood or marriage to the
person providing the care, in a place other than the clients’ own home. The occasional care of
clients by a person not ordinarily in the business of childcare, and the provision of care for clients
of only one immediate family in addition to the person's own children are not considered family
day care homes.
DAY CARE FACILITY, GROUP: A home, place or facility providing care and supervision for
compensation for part of a day, for seven (7) to twelve (12) clients not related by blood or marriage
to the person(s) providing the care, in a place other than the clients’ own home. The occasional
care of clients by a person not ordinarily in the business of childcare, and the provision of care for
clients of only one immediate family in addition to the person's own children are not considered
group day care facilities.
dBA: The A-weighted scale for measuring sound in decibels; weighs or reduces the effects of low
and high frequencies in order to simulate human hearing.
DECISION MAKING BODY: The Director, Commission, or Board, as set forth in Chapter 9 of
this Title. The decision-making bodies are identified as the bodies making a “decision” in Section
8-6-2, Table 8-6-2-1.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for public use, charitable, religious,
or educational purposes.
DENSITY, NET: The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development divided by
the area devoted to residential uses (excluding roadways and/or required dedicated open space).
Should that number be a fraction, it shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
DENSITY: The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development divided by the
total area. Should that number be a fraction, it shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement as a condition of zoning ordinance map
amendment between the Board and an owner concerning the use or development of a property in
accord with Idaho Code Section 67-6511A and Section 8-6-17 of this Title.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or installation of a structure, or any change in use of a
structure, or any change in the use, character, or appearance of land.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Ada County Development Services Department or an authorized


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 275
representative.
DISTRIBUTED POWER FACILITY: A wind or solar power facility where electricity is primarily
produced for use on site with excess supplied to a power grid. The generation capacity shall be
one hundred (100) kilowatts or less.
DISTRIBUTED POWER FACILITY, SOLAR ROOFTOP: A distributed power facility that
converts solar energy into electrical energy, and that is mounted on the rooftop of a building.
DISTRIBUTED POWER FACILITY, WIND FREESTANDING TOWER: A wind or solar power
facility where electricity is primarily produced for use on site with excess supplied to a power grid.
The generation capacity shall be one hundred (100) kilowatts or less.
DISTRIBUTED POWER FACILITY, WIND ROOFTOP: A distributed power facility that
converts wind energy into electrical energy, and that is mounted on the rooftop of a building.
dNL: See Day-night average sound level above.
DOMESTIC PET: An animal kept for enjoyment and companionship that is housed primarily
inside a dwelling.
DRIVE AISLE: Provides access to off-street parking spaces. In some instances, a continuous
service drive may also double as the drive aisle.
DRIVE-UP ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment with drive-up window service.
DRIVE-UP WINDOW SERVICE: An establishment providing a "drive-up window" as herein
defined. The term drive-up window service shall include, but not be limited to, providing food or
beverage service, and/or bank service. The term drive-up window service shall not include
"gasoline, diesel, or alternative fuel sales facility" or "car wash" as herein defined.
DRIVE-UP WINDOW: Any portion of a structure or structure from which business is transacted,
or is capable of being transacted, directly with customers located in a motor vehicle.
DRUG AND ALCOHOL TREATMENT FACILITY: An establishment, or portion that:
a)   provides permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation, and
b) provides a treatment program for adult patients (18 years and older) with a drug and/or
alcohol use problem. This definition shall include a detoxification facility, inpatient facility,
residential facility, clinic, and outpatient facility as they relate to drug and alcohol treatment.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 276
DWELLING OR DWELLING UNIT:                        Figure 8-10-2-3 Dwelling Unit Types
Any structure, or portion thereof, providing
independent living facilities for one "family"
as herein defined, including provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking, and
sanitation. See Figure 8-10-2-3 for types of
dwellings.
DWELLING,          ADDITIONAL          FARM:
A secondary, independent dwelling unit
located in, or on the same property as, a farm.
DWELLING, CARETAKER: A secondary,
independent dwelling unit located in, or on
the same lot/parcel as a use requiring an on-
property caretaker.
DWELLING, DUPLEX: A dwelling unit,
which is attached by a common wall, where
dwelling units are located on the same
property.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: One of a
group of dwelling units in an attached multi-
family residential structure. For purposes of
this ordinance, multi-family dwelling
includes any unit that does not meet the
definition of single-family attached or
single- family detached. Examples include
Examples include stacked triplexes (three
dwellings stacked on separate floors),
quadruplexes or fourplexes (four dwellings
in a single building with two dwellings on the
ground floor and two above), and apartments
or flats (buildings with more than four
dwellings in a single building).
DWELLING, SECONDARY ATTACHED OR DETACHED: A dwelling unit intended to
increase the access to and availability of housing in Ada County.
       1. Attached: A dwelling unit that shares a common wall or walls with the principal
          dwelling, has a separate outside entrance from the principal dwelling, and is
          subordinate to the principal dwelling.
       2. Detached: A dwelling unit that is located in a completely separate structure from the
          principal dwelling and is subordinate to the principal dwelling.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED: A group of dwelling units attached by common
walls, where dwelling units are located on separate lots. Examples include two dwelling units in a
single building divided by a lot line, and townhouses.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 277
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED: A dwelling unit designed for and occupied by
one family only and not structurally connected or attached to any other dwelling. This definition
includes a manufactured home that:
       1. Is multi-sectional;
       2. Encloses an area of at least one thousand (1,000) square feet;
       3. Is placed on an excavated and backfilled foundation and enclosed at the perimeter so
          that the structure is located no more than twelve inches (12") above grade;
       4. Has exterior siding and a roof that is similar in color, material, and appearance to the
          exterior siding and roofing material commonly used on immediately surrounding
          properties.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of three (3)
or more attached units, where each unit is located on a separate lot. Each dwelling unit extends
from the foundation to roof and with open space on at least two (2) sides.
EASEMENT: A right of use, usually for a certain stated purpose, as defined by Idaho Code Section
50-1301.
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINE: Those lines carrying between seven (7) kV and thirty-five
(35) kV of electricity directly to customers.
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION: A facility primarily serving as part of a regional interconnecting grid
system that provides for the transformation, switching, and distribution of both transmission
voltage and/or distribution voltages.
ELECTRIC SUBTRANSMISSION LINE: All lines forty-six (46) kV, sixty-nine (69) kV, and one
hundred thirty-eight (138) kV carrying electricity between two (2) substations.
ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION LINE: Those lines carrying from two hundred thirty (230) kV to
five hundred (500) kV of electricity from a power facility to a substation.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD: A freestanding sign on which changeable copy is provided
by a digital readout.
EMPLOYEE: A person employed on the premises by the property owner and receiving not less
than seventy-five percent (75%) of the employee's annual income from said property owners.
ENDANGERED OR PROTECTED SPECIES RESEARCH FACILITY: A facility whose
principal purpose includes active captive breeding of endangered or protected animals. The facility
must have a public education initiative and allow general public access to some portion of the
facility. The operator shall possess a current U.S. fish and wildlife service permit(s) that allows
working with the endangered or protected species being maintained on site.
ENERGY STORAGE: A fixed installation where energy is stored, either for subsequent
transshipment to a smaller fixed installation, for pick-up by truck for transport to the site where
the product will be used by the consumer, or for collection or transmission through electrical lines.
Energy types may include: bulk gasoline; petroleum products; natural gas, coal; or electric / battery
/ hydrogen fuel cells. Materials may be stored in one or more tanks on the site, with tank size
subject to Federal and State construction and safety standards. These facilities do not include retail
sales. This use does not include accessory tanks for agriculture, temporary construction, or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 278
personal use.
EQUESTRIAN STABLE/EVENT FACILITY: An establishment engaged in equine activities and
events including teaching equestrian skills, participating in equestrian competitions, exhibitions,
or other displays of equestrian skill (such as polo, dressage, and show jumping). Accessory uses
may include offices, storage areas, caretaker’s quarters, and caring for, breeding, boarding, riding,
or training horses associated with the Equestrian Event Facility use.
ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business or residence with its furnishings and staff.
ESTABLISHMENT: For purposes of Section 8-3-12 (Signs), for multi-use properties, a distinct
user that occupies a portion of a multi-tenant building, lot, or development, regardless of the legal
arrangement allowing occupancy between the owner of the building, lot, or development and the
user.
EVENT: See “Special Event.”
EVENT CENTER: A public or privately owned structure, structures and/or area used for the
purposes of a social or cultural event, such as private receptions, weddings, public performances,
meetings or parties, or similar attractions.
EXPLOSIVE MANUFACTURING OR STORAGE: A facility engaged in the process and
business of manufacturing explosive materials for research, testing, sale, or distribution.
FACILITY: A structure or place which is built, installed, or established to serve a particular
purpose.
FALL ZONE: The area in which there is a potential hazard from falling debris (such as ice) or
collapsing structural components.
FAMILY:
       1. A person living alone or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage.
       2. A group of not more than ten (10) persons who need not be related by blood or marriage
          living together in a dwelling unit.
       3. Eight (8) or fewer unrelated mentally and/or physically handicapped or elderly persons
          residing in a dwelling who are supervised at the dwelling in connection with their
          handicap or age-related infirmity, provided that no more than two (2) staff members
          reside in the dwelling at any one time. (Resident staff shall not be counted toward the
          "eight [8] or fewer" criterion).
FAMILY DAY CARE HOME: see “Day Care Home, Family.”
FAMILY MEMBER: See definition of Member of The Owner's Immediate Family.
FARM: A property that meets the requirements of Idaho Code Section 63-604 and has obtained
agricultural determination with the Ada County Assessor’s Office.
FARM DEVELOPMENT RIGHT: A residential parcel created for conveyance pursuant to Section
8-2-5D.
FARM RESIDENTIAL PARCEL: The residential parcel created as a result of a farm development
right.
FARM, GARDEN, LUMBER, OR BUILDING SUPPLY STORE: A commercial establishment

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 279
engaged in the provision of animal feed, bedding and accessories, lumber and building materials,
and farm and garden supplies (such as seed, fencing, hardware, pesticides, and fertilizer) to
agricultural, horticultural, and/or construction operations.
FARMWORKER HOUSING COMPLEX: A complex of dwellings established for the purpose of
providing housing for laborers of seasonal agricultural operations, such as harvesting of
agricultural crops.
FEDERALLY REGULATED CAFO: A confined animal feeding operation regulated by the
Environmental Protection Agency for compliance with Section 502(14) of the Clean Water Act
and the national pollutant discharge elimination system.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: An establishment where the primary occupation is financial
services such as banking, savings and loans, loan offices, and check cashing, and currency
exchange outlets. It does not include financial services that typically occur in an office or storefront
(such as investment companies, loan companies, credit and mortgage, insurance services, or
brokerage firms), which are classified under “Office,” below.
FIRE AUTHORITY: The chief officer or an authorized representative of the fire entity serving the
jurisdiction.
FIREWORKS STAND: The retail sales of nonaerial common fireworks from temporary stands
(see Idaho Code Sections 39-2602, 39-2607).
FLAG: Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols.
FLAMMABLE SUBSTANCE STORAGE: An establishment, or portion thereof, wherein
combustible substances (as defined by the applicable fire code) are stored.
FOOTPRINT: Area of the ground covered by a structure, including the foundation and all areas
enclosed by exterior walls and/or footings.
FOSTER HOME, GROUP: An establishment that: a) provides permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation, and b) provides foster care for seven (7) to thirteen (13)
children under the age of eighteen (18).
FOUNDRY: A workshop or factory for casting metal.
FREIGHT/TRUCK TERMINAL: An establishment or area where freight (brought by truck or rail)
is transferred. The terminal facility may include storage or repair areas for trucks or railcars. The
term freight or truck terminal shall not include a structure or area used for permanent or long-term
storage of freight.
FRONTAGE: A property line along either:
       1. a roadway, or
       2. a permanent access easement to a public street that was of record prior to May 20, 1968,
          and has been established by a clear chain of title in subsequent recorded deeds.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A minor street parallel to and adjacent to an arterial street providing access
to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
FUEL CELL: A device that continuously changes the chemical energy of a fuel (as hydrogen) and
an oxidant directly into electrical energy.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 280
FUEL SALES: An establishment that sells and supplies motor fuel, lubricating oils, alternative
fuel, and/or grease to on premises trade.
FULL CUTOFF SHIELD: In its installed position, a light fixture with a full cutoff shield will not
allow any direct light above a horizontal plane and no more than five percent (5%) of the total light
output may come from the zone from fifteen degrees (15°) below the horizontal to the horizontal
plane. See Section 8-3-8 of this Title, Figure 8-3-8-1 (Full Cut Off Shield).
FUNERAL SERVICES: An establishment used primarily for human funeral services, which may
or may not include facilities on the premises for embalming and performing of autopsies or other
surgical procedures. Examples include funeral homes, mortuaries, or columbarias.
GLARE: Light emitted from a fixture with intensity great enough to cause visual discomfort, eye
fatigue, reduction in a viewer's ability to see and, in extreme cases, momentary blindness.
GOLF COURSE: A tract of land laid out with at least nine holes for playing a game of golf and
improved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards. A golf course may include a clubhouse,
restrooms, driving range, and shelters as accessory uses.
GOLF COURSE AND COUNTRY CLUB: An establishment with recreation facilities for
members, their families, and invited guests, that includes a clubhouse (which may include dining
and banquet facilities) and a golf course. The establishment may also include tennis facilities,
swimming facilities, and indoor exercise or recreational rooms and equipment.
GRADE:
       1. The degree of inclination of a slope, roadway, or other surface.
       2. A slope or gradual inclination.
       3. Top of ground upon completion of grading and landscaping.
GRADE, ADJACENT STREET: The grade at the top of the curb or the pavement edge where no
curb exists.
GRAIN ELEVATOR: A structure equipped with mechanical lifting devices used for storing grain.
GRANDFATHER RIGHTS: See Chapter 7 of this Title.
GREENHOUSE: Structures whose roof and sides are made largely of transparent or translucent
material and in which the temperature and humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of plants.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The measure of total square footage of habitable space of a structure.
GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION: Facilities that provide passenger transportation
by bus, charter bus, automobile, limousine, van, or shuttle. Some services (such as taxi) are not
operated over regular routes and on regular schedules. Examples include charter bus, special needs
transportation, taxicab owner/operators, taxicab fleet operators, or taxicab organizations. This use
includes fleet services that store, maintain, repair, fuel, and service two or more vehicles owned
by a single commercial or public entity. This use does not include publicly operated bus or transit
systems.
GROUP DAY CARE FACILITY: See Day Care Facility, Group.
GROUP HOME: See Foster Home, Group.
HABITABLE SPACE: Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating, or cooking. Bathrooms,

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 281
toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility space, and similar areas, are not considered
habitable space.
HALFWAY HOUSE: An establishment that provides housing for persons convicted of nonviolent
crimes that are in the later stages of serving a sentence and are being transitioned back into society.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The Central District Health Department, the Idaho Department of
Health and Welfare, the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality, the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, and any agency as may succeed to any of their powers. The
term health authority is liberally construed to include all of the adopted, approved or certified
plans, rules, regulations, statutes or laws of the health authority.
HEAVY EQUIPMENT SALES OR SERVICE: An establishment used for the sale, rental or
servicing of tools, trucks, tractors, construction equipment, agricultural implements, or similar
industrial equipment.
HEAVY TRUCK WASH FACILITY: A facility utilized primarily for washing and cleaning trucks
and trailers that haul livestock and other agricultural products. The facility may include structures
to store and contain process wastewater, i.e., water generated on an agricultural truck washing
facility that comes into contact with manure, compost, bedding, or feed, during the non-land
application season. The facility may include structures to allow land application of process
wastewater during the land application season.
HIGHWAY: A street so designated as a state or federal highway by the state or federal agency
responsible therefor.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation, profession, or business activity that is incidental and
secondary to a dwelling unit and does not affect the rural or residential character of the
neighborhood.
HOTEL/MOTEL: An establishment that provides lodging to the public for a fee as defined by
Idaho Code Section 67-4711, excluding boarding houses and bed and breakfast establishments.
ILLUMINATED, DIRECT: A light fixture that directs and concentrates light on a sign.
ILLUMINATED, INTERNAL: A light source for a sign that is contained within the sign and is
visible only through a translucent surface or recessed into the sign structure.
ILLUMINATED, NEON: A source of diffused light from a tube filled with neon, helium, argon,
krypton, and/or xenon.
ILLUMINATION, EXPOSED LAMP: A source of light visible from the street where the lamp
does not produce diffused light or where such lamp is not completely covered by a translucent
and/or opaque shield.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any material that substantially reduces or prevents the infiltration of
water. It includes surfaces such as compacted sand, shale, lime rock, or clay, as well as most
conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, parking lots, and other similar structures.
IMPROVEMENT: Shall include, but not be limited to, roadway paving, curb, gutter, sidewalk,
pedestrian pathway, bike path, water line, sewer line, drainage work, bus turnout, streetlight,
and/or landscaping.
INDUSTRIAL: Refers to the manufacture, processing, fabrication, and testing of goods and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 282
materials, including the production of power. It does not refer to the growing of agricultural crops,
the raising of livestock, or the extraction or severance of raw materials.
INNER APPROACH ZONE: An area inside the airport influence areas that has the following
dimensions: ten thousand feet (10,000') in length and beginning one thousand feet (1,000') in width
at the end of the overrun area and widening uniformly to a width of four thousand feet (4,000') at
a distance of ten thousand feet (10,000') and having as its center line the continuation of the center
line of the landing strip.
INTERSTATE: A street that is designated as an interstate on the most current Ada County long
range highway and street map.
JOINT USE PARKING: The use of a single parking facility by several related uses occupying the
same or adjacent parcels.
JUNK: Discarded, used, or secondhand materials, including, but not limited to, used machinery,
scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, other ferrous and nonferrous metals, tools, appliances, implements,
vehicles or portions thereof, furniture, beds and bedding, rags, glass, plastic, cordage, rubber,
building materials (excluding lumber), or other waste
that has been abandoned from its original use and may be used again in its present or in a new
form.
JUNKYARD OR AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: An establishment as defined by Idaho
Code Section 40-111 where junk, including automobiles and machinery, are bought, sold,
exchanged, stored, kept, processed, or handled.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any premises which five (5) or more domestic dogs are maintained,
harbored, possessed, trained, bred, boarded, or cared for in return for compensation, but not
including an animal clinic, animal hospital, or veterinary office.
KENNEL, HOBBY: A facility located at the private dwelling of the dog owner, where five (5) to
ten (10) of the owner's dogs are maintained for purposes of breeding, hunting, organized field
trials, obedience or training, competition, security, foster care, or for personal enjoyment.
LABORATORY: Facilities for biological, serological, biophysical, cytological, and pathological
tests, and facilities for the chemical or other examination of materials from water, air or other
substances, as defined by Idaho Code Section 39-103.
LAGOON: An earthen structure designed to treat liquid manure through biodegradation by
bacteria.
LANDSCAPE AND SCREENING PLAN: A scaled drawing showing all existing and proposed
landscaping and its associated measurements, features, and details such as trees, plantings, shrubs,
groundcovers, soils, mulches, and preservation, protection, and replacement of landscaping items
for a proposed development.
LANDSCAPE ISLAND: A landscape area surrounded by a parking area and/or a vehicular use
area.
LIGHT FIXTURE, INSTALLED: The attachment, or assembly fixed in place, whether or not
connected to a power source, of any outdoor light fixture.
LIGHT FIXTURE, OUTDOOR: Outdoor electrically powered illuminating device, outdoor


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 283
lighting or reflective surface, lamp, and similar device, permanently installed or portable, used for
illumination or advertisement. Such devices shall include, but are not limited to, search, spot, and
floodlights for buildings and structures; recreational areas; parking lot lighting; landscape lighting;
billboards and other signs; street lighting; product display area lighting; building overhangs and
open canopies.
LIGHT FIXTURE: A complete lighting unit consisting of a light source (lamp) and all necessary
mechanical, electrical, and decorative parts.
LIGHT TRESPASS: The extension of a light fixture's effective zone of light (as defined by a
photometric test report) beyond the boundaries of the property on which it is located. See Section
8-3-8 of this Title, Figure 8-3-8-2 (Light Trespass).
LIGHTING PLAN: A drawing showing all existing and proposed lighting and its associated
structures, measurements, details, and features for a proposed development.
LIGHTING, DISPLAY: The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America (IESNA)
recommended practices and American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standard lighting levels
for display lighting.
LIGHTING, SECURITY: The IESNA recommended practices and ANSI standard lighting levels
for security lighting.
LIGHTING, TEMPORARY: Exterior light fixtures that are intended for use for a period of less
than seven (7) days, with at least one hundred eighty (180) days passing before being used again.
LIVESTOCK CONFINEMENT FACILITY: Facilities where animals have been, are, or will be
stabled, confined, gathered, or concentrated and fed or maintained (watered, cleaned, groomed,
medicated, etc.) for a total of forty-five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month period. The
days do not have to be consecutive.
LIVESTOCK: Poultry or other birds, horses, cattle, dairy cattle, swine, sheep, llamas, goats, or
other grazing animals, excluding any such animal kept as a "domestic pet" as herein defined.
LOADING AREA: An open, off-street, hard-surfaced area of land used for the standing, loading,
and unloading of motor vehicles, commercial vehicles, tractors, and trailers to avoid undue
interference with public streets and alleys.
LOT, AREA: This is a minimum (in square feet or acreage) for the entire lot where a lot area
standard applies.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 284
Figure 8-10-2-4 Lot Types




LOT, CORNER: A lot bounded by two or more abutting and intersecting street lines.
LOT, COVERAGE: This is the maximum percentage (in square feet or acreage) of the lot covered
by all improvements where a lot coverage standard applies.
LOT, DEPTH: This is a minimum (in feet) for the entire lot where a lot depth standard applies.
LOT, FLAG: A lot connected to a street by an access corridor such as an alley, private drive, or
access easement.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot which is not a corner lot and only has one (1) street frontage.
LOT, THROUGH: An interior lot bounded by two (2) or more abutting street lines that do not
intersect.
LOT, WIDTH: This is a minimum (in feet) for the entire lot where a lot width standard applies.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of ownership and development.
LUMEN: A unit of luminous flux. One (1) foot-candle is one (1) lumen per square foot. For the
purposes of these regulations, the lumen-output values shall be the initial lumen-output ratings of
a light fixture.
MANUFACTURED HOME:
       1. A dwelling constructed according to HUD/FHA construction and safety standards and
          as defined by Idaho Code Section 39-4105.
       2. A rehabilitated dwelling certified by the state of Idaho Department of Labor and
          Industry, Building Safety Division. See “dwelling, single-family detached” for a


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 285
           description of manufactured homes that are treated as single-family detached
           dwellings.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A development exclusively for siting manufactured homes
on individual spaces that are rented or leased.
MANUFACTURED HOME STORAGE: Any property used for the dead storage of manufactured
homes. "Dead storage" means that the manufactured homes are not occupied as dwelling units,
connected to any utilities, or offered for sale by a dealer holding a valid retail license and having
its principal place of business at the property.
MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A residential subdivision developed exclusively for
siting manufactured homes on individual lots under individual ownership.
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: Manufacturing of paper, chemicals, plastics, rubber, cosmetics,
drugs, nonmetallic mineral products (such as concrete and concrete products, glass), primary
metals, acetylene, cement, lime, gypsum or plaster-of-Paris, chlorine, corrosive acid or fertilizer,
insecticides, disinfectants, poisons, explosives, paint, lacquer, varnish, petroleum products, coal
products, plastic and synthetic resins, electrical equipment, appliances, batteries, and machinery.
This group also includes asphalt mixing plants, concrete mixing plants, smelting, animal
slaughtering, oil refining, and magazine contained explosives facilities.
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: Manufacturing of products, from extracted, raw, recycled or
secondary materials, including bulk storage and handling of those products and materials, or
crushing, treating, washing, and/or processing of materials. This includes similar establishments,
and businesses of a similar and no more objectionable character. It also includes incidental
finishing and storage. Goods or products manufactured or processed on-site may be sold at retail
or wholesale on or off the premises. This does not include any activity listed under Manufacturing,
Heavy. Examples of light manufacturing include the manufacture or production of the following
goods or products: apparel (including clothing, shoes, dressmaking); boats and transportation
equipment; brooms; caskets; communication or computation equipment; dairy products; die-cut
paperboard and cardboard; drugs, medicines, pharmaceutical; electrical equipment or machinery;
farm machinery; fasteners and buttons; feed and grain; food/baking (including coffee roasting,
creameries, ice cream, ice, frozen food, confectionery, and beverage); fruit and vegetable
processing, canning and storage; gaskets; glass products made of purchased glass; household
appliances; industrial controls; leather and allied products; lithographic and printing processes
(including printing plants as defined below); mattresses; medical equipment and supplies;
medicines; mill work and similar woodwork; mobile homes; musical instruments; novelties; office
supplies; optical goods; photographic equipment; prefabricated and modular housing and
components; printing and print supplies (including printing plants); 3-D printing, radio and TV
receiving sets; sanitary paper products; scientific and precision instruments; service industry
machines; signs; textiles (including dyeing, laundry bags, canvas products, dry goods, hosiery,
millinery); tobacco products; toys, sporting and athletic goods; and watches and clocks. A
“printing plant” means a facility devoted to printing or bookbinding, including related large-scale
storage and transshipment.
MANURE STORAGE: An area or structure in which dry manure is stored or a structure, pond, or
tank in which liquid manure is stored but not treated.
MANURE, DRY: Animal or poultry excreta that may also contain bedding, spilled feed, or soil.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 286
MANURE, LIQUID: Manure and any associated wastewater, including, but not limited to: a) any
excess water generated from the process and any precipitation (rain or snow) that comes into
contact with any manure, litter or bedding, or any other material or product used in, or resulting
from, animal or poultry production or direct products (e.g., milk, eggs); and b) any water used
(directly or indirectly) in AFOs for any or all of the following: animal or poultry watering system
spillage or overflow; washing, cleaning, or flushing pens, barns, manure pits or other facilities;
direct contact swimming, animal washing or spray cooling; and/or dust control.
MASTER SITE PLAN: A scaled drawing showing the parcel and all existing and proposed uses
and structures and roads all with dimensions, distances, and private and public road names. It
includes lot lines, lot area, parking spaces, private and public roadways and travel ways, walkways
and sidewalks, topographic features, dedicated open space, buildings and other structures, major
landscape features, and the location of proposed utility easements. A master site plan is a more
detailed representation of a proposed development than shown in a plat and may also include
density and statistical data.
MEATPACKING/SLAUGHTERHOUSE FACILITY: A facility maintained for canning, curing,
smoking, salting, packing, freezing, storing, or other similar uses in which meat products are
processed for commercial sale.
MEDICAL CARE FACILITY: A facility, whether or not licensed or required to be licensed by
the State, by or in which facilities are maintained, furnished, conducted, operated, or offered to
prevent, diagnose, or treat human disease, pain, injury, deformity or physical condition, whether
medical or surgical, of two or more non-related mentally or physically sick or injured persons; or
for the care of two or more non- related persons requiring or receiving medical, surgical, or nursing
attention or service as acute, chronic, convalescent, aged, or physically disabled. This use includes
an intermediate care facility, mental retardation facility, outpatient surgery center, birthing facility,
diagnostic imaging facility, radiation therapy facility, dialysis facility, medical/physical
rehabilitation and trauma unit, or related institution or facility that offers treatment on an outpatient
basis. This use may be operated for profit or nonprofit, privately owned, or operated by a local
government unit. This use includes any hospital, defined as any licensed and State of Idaho
accredited health care institution with an organized medical and professional staff and with
inpatient beds available around-the-clock, whose primary function is to provide inpatient medical,
nursing, and other health-related services to patients for both surgical and nonsurgical conditions
and that usually provides some outpatient services (such as emergency care).
MEMBER OF THE OWNER’S IMMEDIATE FAMILY: Any one of the following: a birth or
adoptive parent, stepparent, grandparent, children, grandchildren, sibling, aunt, uncle, niece,
nephew, or person under the owner’s legal guardianship.
MONOPOLE: A single, self-supporting pole-type structure, tapering from base to top and
supporting a fixture designed to hold one (1) or more antennas. For the purpose of this Ordinance,
a monopole shall not be deemed to be a transmission tower.
MORTUARY: A facility used primarily for human funeral services, which may or may not include
facilities on the premises for embalming and performing of autopsies or other surgical procedures.
MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT: Development where there are three (3) or more dwelling
units or apartments located on the same property in an urban base district or a planned community
base district. A multi-family dwelling may or may not be present on the property.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 287
MULTI-USE PROPERTY: A building or a lot with multiple buildings that is under common
ownership, management, and control and whose occupants are distinct users that each occupy a
portion of the multi-use property.
NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION: A group that has filed registration forms with the Director,
providing the name, boundaries, and representative of the association.
NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES: Abutting properties and any properties separated from the
subject property solely by a roadway or dedicated easement.
NIGHTCLUB: An establishment that provides live or recorded music and a dance area for patrons
inside a structure. A nightclub may or may not serve alcohol. The term nightclub shall not include
dance studios.
NONCONFORMING PROPERTY:
       1. A property that lawfully existed prior to the effective date of this Title, but that does
          not now conform to the dimensional standards for the district in which it is located.
       2. A deemed conforming property given amnesty under the regulations of subsection 8-
          7-1B of this Chapter.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign, sign structure, or use of a sign lawfully existing prior to the
effective date of this Title but that does not now conform to the standards for the district in which
it is located.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure, including agricultural structures, that was
lawfully constructed and/or existing prior to the effective date of this Title, but that does not
conform to the dimensional standards for the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use that lawfully existed prior to the effective date of this Title, but
that does not now conform to the allowed uses for the district in which it is located.
NON-FARM RESIDENTIAL LOT: Residential lot created by the former Non-farm Subdivision
regulations.
NONNOISE SENSITIVE DEVELOPMENT: A use that can be conducted within the noise
exposure forecast thirty (30) area and that is not hindered from maintaining the use by the Boise
air terminal air traffic noise and associated vibration.
NORMAL HIGH-WATER LINE: The "natural or ordinary high-water mark" as defined by Idaho
Code 58-1202, is “the line that water impresses on the soil by covering it for sufficient periods to
deprive the soil of its vegetation and destroy its value for agricultural purposes. When the soil,
configuration of the surface, or vegetation has been altered by man’s activity, the natural or
ordinary high-water mark shall be located where it would have been if no alteration had occurred.”
NURSERY, RETAIL: Any grounds, structures, greenhouses, or premises in which garden, farm,
landscaping, Christmas trees, or florist's stock is propagated, grown, stored, or packed for
commercial sale, and where the general public may purchase goods in small quantities.
NURSERY, WHOLESALE: Any grounds, structures, greenhouses, or premises in which garden,
farm, landscaping, Christmas trees, or florist's stock is propagated, grown, stored, or packed for
commercial sale, and where the owner/operator sells the goods in large quantities to a limited
number of buyers.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 288
OFF STREET PARKING FACILITY: An enclosed structure (other than a private garage) or open,
hard surfaced area (other than a public street or private road), designed, arranged, and made
available for parking vehicles, where such use is operated as a business enterprise with a service
charge or fee being paid by the vehicle operator. Off-street parking facility shall include, but not
be limited to, a commercial parking lot and public garage.
OFFICE: An establishment engaged in professional, semi-professional, business, government,
philanthropic institutions, or client-oriented services. Offices do not include retail or wholesale
activities which require the receiving, stocking, storing, displaying, manufacturing, selling, or
renting of merchandise or equipment, except where specifically permitted as an accessory use.
Offices include the administrative, clerical, or public contact offices of a government agency. All
services are rendered within the principal building, and no outside areas are used to perform
services.
Examples of offices include law firms, publishers, business services, sales, marketing, interior
decorators, employment agencies, security systems services, and studios for professional work or
teaching.
ONE TIME DIVISION: The one-time process of splitting property into multiple properties.
OPEN SPACE, DEDICATED: An area that has been designated on a master site plan or
subdivision plat as open space.
OPEN SPACE, DEVELOPED: An area of open land used for recreational opportunities and that
provides either active or passive recreational facilities.
OPEN SPACE, NATURAL: An area of open land, with little or no land disturbance, preserved,
enhanced and/or restored in order to maintain the natural, scenic, ecological, cultural, hydrological,
geological, or agricultural values of the land. Natural open space may include trails and park bench
style seating; interpretive signage and kiosks for educational purposes; and agricultural activities.
OPEN SPACE: Any developed or natural open space.
OUTDOOR STORAGE OF MATERIALS: Material (including, but not limited to, goods, wares,
merchandise, or vehicles) that is kept in the same place for more than twenty-four (24) hours in an
open area. The term outdoor storage shall include material that is kept under a pole barn structure
or any structure that is less than fully enclosed.
OWNER: A "person", as herein defined, having sufficient proprietary interest in the land to
maintain proceedings under this Title. It shall include the entity or person who files an application
for the owner’s property.
PARCEL: A tract of unplatted land (or contiguous land, if applicable), in single ownership,
considered a unit for purposes of development.
PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not containing a message
of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string, usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
PERSON: Includes an individual, associations, joint ventures, partnerships, estates, trusts,
business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries, corporations, and all other or any other similar entity.
PERSONAL SERVICE or PERSONAL SERVICE USE: Establishments primarily engaged in
providing services, including the care of persons or their apparel. This includes cleaning and
garment services, repair services (not otherwise listed), linen supply, diaper service, coin-operated


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 289
laundries, carpet and upholstery cleaning, photographic studios, beauty shops, barber shops, shoe
repair, steam baths, reducing salons and health clubs, travel agents, clothing rental, locker rental,
porter services, opticians, and tailors.
PERVIOUS SURFACE: A surface that allows water percolation into the underlying soil. This
includes grass, planted areas, vegetated areas, permeable paving, and groundcovers.
PIT, MINE, OR QUARRY: The excavation, mining, dredging, or stripping of land or earth,
including quarrying, borrow pits, or the extraction of sedimentary rock. "Quarrying" means
commercial or industrial stone quarries or operations involving removal from a site of natural
accumulations of sand, rock, soil, or gravel. "Stone quarrying" includes appurtenant structures
such as crushers, screeners, and washers. Accessory uses include:
       1. Crushing, treating, washing, and/or processing of materials, accessory to a quarry
          operation, when conducted on the same property;
       2. Manufacturing of concrete block, cinder block or pre-formed concrete products,
          accessory to an approved quarry use; and
       3. Retail sales of crushed stone or architectural stone products, accessory to an approved
          quarry use. Accessory uses do not include any other industrial use, such as a concrete
          batching plant or asphalt mixing plant.
PIT, MINE, OR QUARRY, TEMPORARY: The excavation, mining, dredging, or stripping of
land or earth, including quarrying on less than six (6) acres of land.
PLANNED COMMUNITY (PC): A well designed small town or urban type development
characterized by a wide mix of uses, on site amenities, trip capture, and connectivity within the
community; conservation of open space and preservation of environmental attributes; an emphasis
on community character and heritage and forming a sense of community; and provision of urban
public services.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): An area of land in which a variety of residential,
commercial, industrial, and other land uses are provided for under single ownership or control.
(Source: Idaho Code 67-6515; see Section 8-6-22 (Planned Unit Development (PUD)) for
procedures and requirements for PUDs).
PLANNED COMMUNITY IMPLEMENTATION PLAN: A plan submitted in compliance with
this Title demonstrating how a PC will be developed in compliance with the requirements of this
Title.
PLANNED COMMUNITY SUBAREA COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The comprehensive plan
text for a subarea encompassed by a PC base district and specific PC overlay district.
PLAT, COMBINED PRELIMINARY FINAL: The drawing, map, or plan of a subdivision
meeting the requirements set forth in Section 8-6-28. This plat is the combined, streamlined
approval process of preliminary and final plats.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision, cemetery, or other tract of land, or a
replatting of such, including certifications, descriptions, and approvals and containing those
elements and requirements set forth in Section 8-6-27 of this Title.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A development plan of a subdivision, containing the elements and
requirements set forth in Section 8-6-26 of this Title. A preliminary plat is a final document and is


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 290
not considered to be of a preliminary nature and is used as a guide for the preparation of the final
plat.
PLAT: An engineered map of a land subdivision in compliance with local and State law.
PORTABLE CLASSROOM: A building or structure that is designed to be made mobile and drawn
by a separate vehicle and is used for the educational purpose for students on a site.
POSTAL SERVICE: Retail sales or business services establishments that facilitate the transmittal
and receipt of letter, bulk, and package mail.
POWER FACILITY: A facility associated with the production or transmission of electricity,
including wind, geothermal, solar, biomass, and hydroelectric power facilities; or a power
substation, an electric substation, a grid switching site, or an electric transmission, sub-
transmission, or distribution line, any of which may or may not be regulated by the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission; or a facility qualifying under 18 CFR part 131.80.
PRIME FARMLAND: Prime farmland is land that has the best combination of physical and
chemical characteristics for producing food, feed, forage, fiber, and oilseed crops and that is
available for these uses. Prime farmland can be determined using resources provided by the United
States Department of Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation Service.
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE: The use of land or a structure allowed in a specific zoning base
or overlay district as distinguished from an accessory or conditional use.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: For any given property, the structure in which the principal use is
conducted.
PRIVATE ROAD: A roadway that is not dedicated to the public, that is not a part of the public
highway system, and that is approved pursuant to Section 8-3-11 of this Title.
PROCESSING PLANT, AGRICULTURAL AND DAIRY PRODUCTS: A facility that
applies specific treatments and food or chemical processes to agricultural or dairy products.
PRODUCE: Raw and unprocessed fruits, vegetables, or herbs.
PRODUCE STAND, AGRICULTURAL: See “Agricultural Produce Stand.”
PRODUCE STAND, ROADSIDE: See “Roadside Produce Stand.”
PROGRAMMED: Included in the capital improvements program of a city, Ada County, a planned
community provider outside of an area of impact, a taxing district, or a regulated public utility, as
being constructed within five (5) years. If a capital improvements program has not been adopted,
"programmed" shall mean a transferable memorandum of understanding between the provider of
the urban public facility and the applicant/owner, that a needed public facility will be provided
within one year.
PROHIBITED USE: Any use within a district not listed as a principal permitted, accessory, or
conditional use in this Title.
PROPERTY BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: The division for conveyance of a lot or parcel for
the purpose of adjusting the boundary between properties where:
       1. the dimensions of the properties are not reduced below the minimum dimensional
          standards for the applicable district;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 291
       2. there is no increase in the original number of properties; and
       3. no easements, public streets, private roads, or publicly dedicated areas are affected.
PROPERTY DEPTH: The horizontal distance that connects the front property line and the rear
property line as measured perpendicular to any point along the front property line.
PROPERTY LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot or parcel from the street on which it takes
access.
PROPERTY LINE, REAR: The property line opposite and most distant from the front property
line. Where the lot or parcel is irregular and the property lines converge, the rear property line is a
line at a point where the side property lines are at least ten feet (10') apart.
PROPERTY LINE, SIDE: Any property lines other than a front or rear property line. A side
property line separating a lot or parcel from a street is called a side street property line. A side
property line separating a lot or parcel from another lot or parcel is called an interior side property
line.
PROPERTY LINES: Lot lines or parcel boundaries.
PROPERTY OF RECORD: A property of record in the Ada County recorder's office as of January
1, 1985.
PROPERTY SIZE: The computed horizontal area contained within the property lines.
PROPERTY WIDTH: The horizontal distance that connects opposing side property lines as
measured perpendicular to any point along the side property lines.
PROPERTY, CORNER: A lot or parcel abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection
or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street forming an interior
angle of less than one hundred thirty-five degrees (135°). The point of intersection of the street
lines is the "corner".
PROPERTY, THROUGH: A lot or parcel other than a corner property having frontage on two (2)
parallel or approximately parallel streets.
PROPERTY: A "lot" or "parcel" defined in this Zoning Ordinance.
PUBLIC AMENITY: Shall include, but not be limited to, the following: school site, bike path,
transit facility, park site, park and ride lot, and public safety facility such as police, fire, or
emergency medical facilities.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Shall include, but not be limited to:
       1. fire station;
       2. law enforcement;
       3. library;
       4. post office;
       5. public administration building (exclusive of shop, garage);
       6. hospital, skilled nursing facility, or residential care facility;
       7. emergency medical service facility;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 292
       8. halfway house and work release facility; and
       9. juvenile detention facility.
PUBLIC HIGHWAY AGENCY: The Ada County Highway District or the Idaho Transportation
Department.
PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY: Shall include, but not be limited to:
       1. pumping station for water, sewer, or gas;
       2. municipal wastewater collection and treatment facility or interim wastewater treatment
          system;
       3. utility shop, garage, or storage facility;
       4. park and ride lot;
       5. water reservoir and water tank; or
       6. storm drainage facility and storm detention facility.
PUBLIC OR QUASI-PUBLIC USE: Shall include, but not be limited to, public buildings and/or
public infrastructure facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A right of way open to the public and subject to the jurisdiction of a
public highway agency, where the public highway agency has no obligation to construct or
maintain said right of way for vehicular traffic.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Facilities owned and operated by a public utility as defined in Idaho Code
Section 61-129.
RACETRACK: A structure or portion, used for racing vehicles or animals for recreation or profit
and that may include accessory uses and structures normally associated with this activity.
RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATION: Broadcasting and other
communication services accomplished through wired or wireless electronic mechanisms (except
for separately listed uses below). Examples include radio and television recording studios; radio,
radar and/or television towers (defined as structures for the transmission of broadcasting of radio,
TV, or radar signals); switching centers; and cable transmitting stations.
RAILROAD SWITCHING YARD: An area where the process of putting railcars in a specific
order (as in a classification yard), placing railcars for loading or retrieving empties (industrial
switching), or the process of adding or removing railcars from a train at an intermediate point. This
includes the movement of cars from one point to another within the limits of an individual plant,
industrial area, or a rail yard.
RAINWATER HARVESTING: The capturing, storing, and conserving rainwater for recharging
groundwater and/or providing water for non-potable uses.
RECREATION ITEM, PERSONAL: The term personal recreation item shall include, but not be
limited to, bus, boat, snowmobile, horse trailer, and all-terrain vehicle.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY, ACTIVE: Recreational opportunity involving moderate to high
intensity use which may require modification of natural landforms and the provision of service
facilities, playing fields or equipment. Examples include, but are not limited to: playground
equipment, sports fields, surfaced courts, volleyball courts, swimming pools, skateparks,

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 293
multipurpose centers and open play areas.
RECREATIONAL FACILITY, PASSIVE: Recreational opportunity occurring in a natural setting
requiring minimal development or facilities and providing areas for informal, self-directed
activities for individuals or small groups. Examples include but are not limited to: trails; pathways;
picnic shelters; park bench style seating; interpretive signage and kiosks for educational purposes;
community gardens; golf courses; and structures, streets, and parking areas accessory to these uses.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A premises upon which two (2) or more parking sites are
located, established, or maintained for occupancy by recreational vehicles for temporary use for
recreation or vacation purposes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A portable structure primarily designed as temporary living
accommodation for recreational, camping, and travel use and as defined in Idaho Code Section 49-
119.
RECYCLING CENTER: An establishment that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable
resource materials, such as paper products, glassware, and metal cans, are collected, sorted,
flattened, crushed, or bundled within a completely enclosed structure prior to shipment to others
who use such resource materials to manufacture new products.
RECYCLING PLANT: An establishment that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable resource
materials, such as paper products, glassware, and metal cans, are recycled, reprocessed, and treated
to return such products to a condition in which they may be reused for production.
RELIGIOUS LAND USE: A structure or group of structures intended for regular gatherings of
people to attend, participate in or conduct religious services and other related activities and
associated accessory uses. Associated accessory uses may include religious instruction classrooms,
church offices, counseling programs, youth programs, parking, summer camps, recreational
facilities, food bank, or sale of religious items.
REQUIRED YARD: See definition of Yard, Required.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITY: An establishment that has facilities or
laboratories for scientific research, investigation, testing, or experimentation, but not facilities for
the manufacture or sale of products, except as incidental to the main purpose of the facility.
RESIDENTIAL USE: A use listed under the “Residential” category in the Use Table (Section 8-
2-23, Table 8-2-23-1).
RESTAURANT: Any eating establishment having kitchen and cooking facilities for the
preparation of food and where meals are regularly served to the public for compensation.
RETAIL STORE: The use of a site that offers merchandise to the public for monetary
compensation. The use includes, but is not limited to, convenience stores; food stores; apparel and
accessories stores; book, computer, and music stores; electronics and appliances; florists; furniture
and home furnishings; general merchandise stores; health and personal care stores; hobby, office
supplies, stationary, and gift stores; specialty stores, sporting goods; and used merchandise stores.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: See definition of Public Right-of-Way.
ROADSIDE PRODUCE STAND: An establishment where “produce” as defined in this Section,
is displayed, and sold to the general public on a seasonal basis. No other commodities may be sold.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 294
ROADWAY: Any public street or approved private road.
RURAL RESIDENCE: Farm development right parcels, non-farm residential lots, and legal non-
conforming residential properties (see Section 8-7-4 of the Ada County Code) under two and a
half (2.5) acres.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site employing an engineering method of disposing of solid
wastes in a manner that minimizes environmental and health hazards by spreading, compacting,
and covering the solid wastes. Solid wastes shall be limited to those outlined in Title 5, Chapter 2
of this code.
SAWMILL/PLANNING MILL: A mill for sawing timber or logs into boards or lumber.
SCENIC CORRIDOR: An area of significant scenic importance to Ada County as a representation
of the rural character and general attractive beauty of the County, as designated on an adopted
comprehensive plan.
SCHOOL: An institution of learning that offers academic instruction in the courses that are
required by the state of Idaho to be taught in public schools. "School" includes kindergarten,
elementary, middle, junior high, and senior high. Privately funded schools whose curriculum meets
the state of Idaho standards are included in this definition.
SEASONAL EVENT: A temporary event lasting less than thirty (30) calendar days as a principal
or accessory use.
SEASONAL FARMWORKER HOUSING: A temporary housing facility constructed for
contractors on resource development projects in extractive industries (e.g., oil, pipeline, mining,
hydroelectric, agricultural and forestry).
SEASONAL STAND: An ancillary retail use alongside a right-of-way such as fireworks, snow
cone, or Christmas tree stands.
SELF-SUPPORTING UNIT: A stand-alone module of a planned community that generates
enough revenue, as demonstrated by the approved implementation plan pro forma, to support the
construction and operation of appropriate urban public services required to serve each dwelling
unit therein.
SEPTAGE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL FACILITY: A facility that provides for the treatment
and disposal of septage and is under private ownership.
SEPTAGE: A general term for the contents removed from septic tanks, portable vault toilets, privy
vaults, or wastewater holding tanks receiving wastewater from domestic sources. Nondomestic
(industrial) waste may also be present but is not considered part of the definition. This does not
include drinking water treatment residuals that may be held in a holding tank.
SETBACK, FRONT: The minimum required distance between the front property line and nearest
structure.
SETBACK, INTERIOR SIDE: The minimum required distance between the side property line and
nearest structure.
SETBACK, REAR: The minimum required distance between the rear property line and nearest
structure.
SETBACK, SIDE STREET: The minimum required distance between the side street (right-of-


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 295
way) property line and nearest structure.
SETBACK: The minimum required distance between the property line and the nearest structure.
SHADOW FLICKER: The on and off flickering effect of a shadow caused when the sun passes
behind the rotor of a wind turbine.
SHOOTING RANGE: An establishment that allows for the safe practice of shooting firearms and
that may include accessory uses and structures normally associated with this activity.
SIGN BACKGROUND AREA: Also referred to as sign face area, measured in square feet and
calculated as the width multiplied by the height of a single rectangle, parallel with the ground, that
contains all sign elements, and any internally illuminated or backlit panel, fabric, or similar
material, but not including the supporting structure.
SIGN COPY: The graphic content of a sign in either permanent or removable letter, pictographic,
symbolic, or alphabetic form.
SIGN, ANIMATED: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict action or to
create a special effect, including electronic message boards.
SIGN, BANNER: Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is permanently mounted
to a pole or a structure by a permanent frame at one or more edges. Flags mounted to a single pole
on one side are not considered banners.
SIGN, BUILDING: A sign that is permanently attached to any part of a building, as contrasted to
a freestanding sign.
SIGN, CANOPY: A sign that is a part of, or attached to, an awning, canopy, or other fabric, plastic,
or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area. A marquee
is not a canopy.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign that is structurally independent of a building and whose
background or copy area is wholly supported by a column, pole, foundation, pedestal, or other
support structure in or on the ground.
SIGN, INCIDENTAL: A small permanent sign, freestanding or attached to a building, used in
addition to the primary sign types for the property, such as wall signs and freestanding signs, and
that has a height and scale subordinate to the primary sign types allowed for the property. Examples
of typical incidental signs include occupant names or directories, directional information, drive-
through menu boards, gas pumps, and parking information. The list of examples does not limit the
content of incidental signs. The County will not review the content of incidental signs.
SIGN, INTEGRAL: A permanent attached sign that is embedded, extruded, or carved into the
material of a building façade or that is made of bronze, brushed stainless steel or aluminum, or
similar material that is permanently attached to the building façade in such a way that it is an
architectural detail of the building.
SIGN, PARAPET: A sign attached parallel to, but within one foot (1') of, a parapet, painted on the
parapet surface of, or erected and confined on a parapet of any structure, which is supported by
such parapet or structure, and which displays only one sign surface.
SIGN, PROJECTING: A sign affixed to a structure or wall in such a manner that its leading edge
extends more than one foot (1') beyond the surface of such structure or wall.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 296
SIGN, ROOF: A sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a structure, supported
by the roof structure, and extending vertically above the highest portion of the roof. Parapet signs,
as herein defined, are not roof signs.
SIGN, TEMPORARY: Any sign that is designed and intended for use less than twelve (12) months
and that is not permanently mounted. Temporary signs are generally constructed of cloth, canvas,
light fabric, cardboard, wood, wallboard, metal, or other light materials, with or without frames,
and displayed for a limited time only. Temporary signs include banners, feather signs, inflatable
devices, post signs, stake signs, and A-frame signs. Examples of common temporary signs include
political signs, public demonstrations, grand opening signs, contractor signs, real estate signs, and
signs that announce an event such as a carnival, circus, or similar event. The list of examples does
not limit the content of temporary signs. The County will not review the content of temporary
signs.
SIGN, WALL: A sign attached parallel to, but within one foot (1') of, a wall, painted on the wall
surface of, or erected and confined within the limits of an outside wall of any structure, which is
supported by such wall or structure, and which displays only one sign surface.
SIGN: A visual display of an object or device that includes elements such as colors, lights, motion,
symbols, images, icons, letters, numerals, figures, characters, or combines any of those elements,
that a person intends to communicate, advertise, identify, announce, direct, inform, or attract
attention, and that a viewer can see and comprehend from a public right-of-way. The term “sign”
includes a structure used to support or display a sign.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: Any unstaffed facility used to transmit, receive, distribute,
provide, or offer personal wireless communications services, with antennas and associated
equipment, that do not exceed the volumes specified below:
       1. Each individual antenna, excluding all other wireless equipment associated with the
          facility, is individually no more than three (3) cubic feet in volume, and all antennas on
          the structure total no more than six (6) cubic feet in volume; and
       2. All other wireless equipment associated with the facility, excluding cable runs for the
          connection of power and other services, do not cumulatively exceed:
           a. Twenty-eight (28) cubic feet on all non-pole-type support structures that can
              support fewer than three (3) providers; or
           b. Twenty-one (21) cubic feet on all monopoles and pole-type support structures that
              can support fewer than three (3) providers; or
           c. Thirty-five (35) cubic feet on all non-pole- type support structures that can support
              at least three (3) providers; or
           d. Twenty-eight (28) cubic feet on all monopoles and pole-type support structures that
              can support at least three (3) providers.
       3. The volume of any equipment that is not visible from public spaces at the ground level
          from two hundred fifty feet (250') or less may be omitted from the calculation of
          volumetric limits set forth in this definition.
SMALL WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A structure that can support a small wireless
facility. Includes, but is not limited to, monopoles, light poles, traffic signal poles, utility poles,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 297
any pole used for adornments, base stations, buildings, water tanks, transmission towers,
billboards, and other freestanding self- supporting structures.
SOCIAL HALL: An establishment, or portion thereof, used for social gatherings including, but
not limited to, weddings, receptions, dinners, bazaars, banquets, and reunions.
SOCIAL MEETING PLACE: See “event center.”
SOIL/WATER REMEDIATION, ON-SITE: Remediation that occurs on the same site where the
contaminated soil or water exists. On-site remediation does not involve removal or transportation
of soil or water off site.
SOIL/WATER REMEDIATION: Structures and/or activities that remove contaminates from soil
or water.
SOLAR COLLECTOR MOUNTS: Mounting arrangements that hold various devices for the
absorption of solar radiation for the heating of water or buildings or the production of electricity,
consisting of:
       1. Building Integrated Photovoltaics Mount: A solar collector system that is integrated
          into the structure of a building. Common building integrated photovoltaic applications
          include carports, awnings, and curtain walls.
       2. Ground Mount: A solar collector system where an array is mounted onto the ground.
          The most common type of ground mount is a wedge structure constructed from steel
          supports anchored in concrete footings. The remainder of the structure is built from
          aluminum or galvanized steel.
       3. Pole Mount: A solar collector system that consists of an array that is mounted on top
          of a single steel pole, which is ground mounted. This type of installation can be
          manually adjustable, so that the pitch of the array at different times of the year can be
          changed.
       4. Roof Mount: A solar collector system with an array of solar panels located on the roof
          of a structure. In most cases this array will be attached directly to the structural
          members of the building.
SOLAR FACILITY: Any solar collection or other solar device, or any structural design feature of
a building whose primary purpose is to provide for the collection, storage or distribution of solar
energy for space heating or cooling, water heating or electricity.
Solar collection methods include, but are not limited to, photovoltaic panels, solar thermal
collectors, passive solar, and concentrating solar power.
SOUND WALL: A solid concrete or masonry wall designed to create a barrier that protects
inhabitants of sensitive land use areas from noise pollution.
SPECIAL EVENT: Any temporary event including, but not limited to, picnics, barbecues, holiday
events and parties, dances, concerts, bike rides and races, footraces and walks, auctions and sales,
bazaars, sales or marketing events, and harvest festivals and events.
STABLE: A facility that keeps or boards horses for public or private use. Accessory uses include
offices, storage areas, educating and training students in equitation, and caring for, breeding, or
training horses associated with the stable use.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 298
STACKING: The process of vehicles queuing for a provided service.
STACKING LANE: The space occupied by vehicles queuing for a provided service.
STAFF: Any Ada County officer or employee present during a hearing.
STATE: The State of Idaho.
STORAGE FACILITY, SELF-SERVICE: A structure or group of structures with a controlled
access and fenced compound that contains individual, compartmentalized, or controlled units that
are leased or sold to store material (including, but not limited to, goods, wares, merchandise, or
vehicles). This use may also include an outdoor storage area within the fenced compound.
STORY: Shall be as defined by Ada County Building Code as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of
this code, except that any single- story structure, or portion thereof, that exceeds twenty-four feet
(24’) in height shall be deemed a two-story structure.
STREET FRONTAGE: The linear distance that a property line abuts a public street or approved
private road providing access, from one property line intersecting said street to the farthest distant
property line intersecting the same street.
STREET ISLAND: A lot and block in a subdivision located in the public street right-of-way. The
street island is considered part of the public right-of-way.
STREET KNUCKLE: An extension of a minor street providing access to abutting properties.
STREET, ALLEY: A public means of secondary access to abutting property that is not for general
traffic circulation or street frontage.
STREET, ARTERIAL: A street designated as an arterial on the most recent Ada County long
range highway and street map. See also definitions of Arterial, Minor and Arterial, Principal.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street designated as a collector on the most recent Ada County long
range highway and street map.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A dead end street provided with a turnaround at its terminus.
STREET, HALF: A portion of the width of a street, usually along the edge of a subdivision, where
the remaining portion of the street could be provided in another subdivision.
STREET, HIGHWAY: See definition of Highway.
STREET, INTERSTATE: See definition of Interstate.
STREET, LOCAL: A street used primarily for access to abutting properties.
STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL: A street designated as a minor arterial on the most recent Ada
County long range highway and street map.
STREET, PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL: A street designated as a principal arterial on the most recent
Ada County long range highway and street map.
STREET, PUBLIC: A street, public road, thoroughfare, alley, highway, or bridge subject to the
jurisdiction of a public highway agency.
STREET, SECTION LINE: A section line street as designated on the most recent Ada County
long range highway and street map.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 299
STREET: A street, public road, thoroughfare, alley, highway, or a right-of-way that may be open
for public use but is not part of a public highway system nor subject to the jurisdiction of a public
highway agency.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed, the use of which requires permanent location
on the ground, or attachment to something having a permanent location on the ground.
STUDIO: A structure or portion, used as a place of work and/or instruction by an artist or artisan.
The term studio shall include, but not be limited to, art, music, gymnastic, dance, martial arts,
photography, or video production studios and classrooms. The term studio, as used in this Title,
shall not include a single room apartment or dwelling.
SUBDIVISION MODEL HOME/REAL ESTATE SALES OFFICE: A temporary use within a
developing subdivision where real estate tours, leasing, and sales occurs.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots for the purpose of
conveyance of ownership or for building development. “Subdivision” includes any recorded plat.
SUBSTANTIAL COMPLIANCE: A final plat that substantially complies with an approved
preliminary plat. Substantial compliance adheres to the standards in 8-6-7.
SWALE: A shallow depression.
SWIMMING POOL: Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing that can contain
water over two feet (2') in depth. This includes inground and aboveground swimming pools, hot
tubs, and spas.
SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE: A swimming pool that is open only to residents, members, or
guests of the building or site where it is located.
TANNERY: A place where animal hides are tanned; the workshop of a tanner.
TECHNICAL SCHOOL: A nonacademic establishment offering courses such as secretarial,
computer and data processing, drafting, electronic repair (including radio/TV repair), commercial
art, cosmetology, allied health care, real estate, banking, and restaurant operation. Instruction may
also include vocational training such as welding and metal fabrication, pipefitting, automobile
body and engine repair, construction equipment operation, building trades, truck driving, airplane
maintenance, and mechanical and electrical equipment/appliance repair.
TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION OFFICE: A building or structure that is designed to be made
mobile and drawn by a separate vehicle and is used for the purpose of storage or administration on
a site while building construction takes place.
TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS: A "manufactured home," permitted as a temporary
dwelling for a member of the owner's immediate family or owner’s employees on the same
property as the principal permitted use.
TEMPORARY MOBILE AND LAND-BASED TELECOMMUNICATION TESTING
FACILITY: Whip antennas, panels antennas, microwave dishes, and receive-only satellite dishes
and related equipment for wireless audio-transmission with low wattage not to exceed 500 watts,
from a sender to one or more receivers, such as for mobile cellular telephones and mobile radio
system facilities.
TITLE: The Ada County Zoning Ordinance. This term may also be referred to as “Zoning


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 300
Ordinance.”
TOWER OR ANTENNA STRUCTURE, COMMERCIAL: A use provided by, or a structure
utilized by a public service utility or commercial public telecommunications service under the
jurisdiction of the State of Idaho and/or licensed by the Federal Communications Commission to
provide commercial public telecommunications services. A commercial tower or antenna structure
may include a tower, monopole, antenna hub site, and other antenna support structures or
equipment buildings. This does not include non-commercial applications, such as amateur radio
operations, private towers, or antenna structures.
TOWER OR ANTENNA STRUCTURE, PRIVATE: An antenna, antenna hub site, antenna
support structure, monopole, transmission tower, or temporary mobile and land-based
telecommunication testing facility, that is accessory to and solely used by an individual business.
TOWNHOUSE: See Dwelling, Townhouse.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: A sign, signal, marking, or other device used to regulate, warn,
or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a street, highway, private road open to public travel,
pedestrian facility, or shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by authority of the private owner
or private official having jurisdiction as controlled by the Federal Highway Administration’s
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
TRANSIT FACILITY: Includes transit or bus shelters, bus terminals, stations, and associated
right-of-way. A "transit shelter" means a roofed structure on or adjacent to the right-of-way of a
street, which is designed and used primarily for the protection and convenience of bus passengers.
Includes accessory vehicle and bicycle parking.
TRANSMISSION TOWER: A lattice-type structure, guyed or self-supporting, used to support
antennas. Also called a communication tower or radio tower.
TRANSMISSION LINE: See definition of Electric Transmission Line.
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY: The Ada County Highway District, the Idaho
Transportation Department, Valley Regional Transit, and any other agency that may succeed to
their powers or establish public jurisdiction in the field of transportation. The term transportation
authority shall be liberally construed to include all the adopted, approved, or certified plans, rules,
regulations, statutes, or laws of the transportation authority.
TRANSPORTATION DEMAND MANAGEMENT: The application of strategies and policies for
the purpose of reducing single occupant vehicle trips to optimize use of existing and planned
transportation facilities.
TRAVELWAY: The improved surface required within a private road easement.
TRIP: A single or one direction vehicle movement with either the origin or destination inside the
subject property.
TRUCK: "Truck" is defined in Idaho Code 49-121, as may be amended from time to time.
TRUCK STOP: A roadside service and fueling station that caters to federal interstate truckers.
UNDUE ADVERSE IMPACTS: Measurable increases in noise, light, odor, visual, or other
measurable impacts that diminish use or enjoyment of property or are detrimental to the public


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 301
health, safety, and/or welfare.
UNPLATTED: A property that is not included in any subdivision of record in Ada County.
UPLIGHTING: Lighting that is directed in such a manner as to shine light rays above the
horizontal plane.
URBAN PUBLIC FACILITIES: Schools, natural and developed open space, library, electricity,
telephone, water, wastewater, transportation, law enforcement, fire and paramedic capital facilities
provided by a city, taxing district, regulated public utility, or when located in a planned community
base district, a provider as allowed by the requirements of Chapter 12 and Chapter 13 of this Title.
URBAN PUBLIC FACILITY, PROGRAMMED: An urban public facility included in the capital
improvements program of a municipality, taxing district, planned community provider, or a
regulated public utility, scheduled in the relevant entity's capital improvements program for
construction within five (5) years from approval of the planned community overlay district which
the urban public facility will serve.
URBAN PUBLIC SERVICE, PROGRAMMED: An urban public service included in the capital
improvements or service provision program of a municipality, taxing district, planned community
provider, or a regulated public utility, scheduled in the relevant entity's capital improvements or
service provision program for provision within five (5) years from approval of a planned
community overlay district in which the urban public service will be provided.
URBAN PUBLIC SERVICES: Schools, natural and developed open space, library, electricity,
telephone, water, wastewater, transportation, law enforcement, fire and paramedic services
provided by a city, taxing district, a regulated public utility, or when located in a planned
community base district, a provider as allowed by the requirements of Chapter 12 and Chapter 13
of this Title.
URBAN SERVICE PLANNING AREA: The land area within an area of city impact where urban
public facilities are available or planned, as provided, and described in the city’s comprehensive
plan.
USED: Shall include arranged, designed, constructed, altered, converted, rented, leased, or
intended to be used.
UTILITIES: Installations for conducting water, sewage, gas, electricity, television, stormwater,
and similar facilities providing service to and used by the public.
VALUABLE MINERALS: A mineral substance that can be taken from the earth and that has a
value in and of itself separate and apart from the earth and includes, but is not limited to, gravel,
sand, clay, building stone, cinders, pumice, scoria, diatomaceous earth, quartz, limestone, marble,
gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, coal, and phosphate.
VARIANCE: A relief from development standards as allowed by Idaho Code Section 67-6516.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may be transported or
drawn (e.g., travel trailers) upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, as defined in Idaho Code Section 49-123.
VEHICLE IMPOUND YARD: Any portion, piece, division, or parcel of land, excluding fully
enclosed buildings, that is used for the storage or holding of distrained vehicles or personal
property, or for the care and keeping of vehicles or personal property whether taken into the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 302
custody of the law or for other reasons.
VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR: An establishment engaged in major mechanical and body work,
repair of transmissions and differentials, straightening of body parts, painting, welding, or other
similar work is performed on vehicles. Accessory uses include light vehicle service establishments
but not heavy equipment and specialized vehicle sale, rental and service establishments.
VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR: An establishment where the primary use is the sale, servicing, repair
and/or installation of gas, electric, or hybrid motor vehicle accessories, such as: spark plugs,
batteries, distributors and distributor parts, tires, brakes, brake fluid, mufflers, tail pipes, water
hoses, fan belts, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, windshield wipers, wiper blades, grease retainers,
wheel bearings, and mirrors. Light vehicle repair may also include greasing, lubrication and
radiator flushing, minor servicing and repair of carburetors, fuel pumps, oil pumps, water pumps
and lines, electrical systems, and minor motor adjustments not involving removal of the head or
crankcase or racing the motor.
VEHICLE SALES: An establishment where the principal occupation is the sale, rental, and
accessory service of vehicles stored on-site and in operating condition. "Vehicles" include
automobiles, motorcycles, All-Terrain Vehicles (ATV), and trucks stored on site. "Vehicles" do
not include heavy equipment and specialized vehicle sale, rental, and service establishments.
However, specialized vehicles may be sold, rented, and serviced as an accessory use. This use
includes an automobile car-sharing agency, defined as a motor vehicle sales and accessory service
lot that provides vehicles shared by its members as a means to supplement mass transit facilities.
VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL: Any currently licensed and operable motor vehicle with a gross
vehicle weight rating over twenty-six thousand (26,000) pounds and as defined by Idaho Code
Section 49-123.
VEHICLE, INOPERABLE: A vehicle that cannot move under its own power or does not meet the
minimum legal requirements necessary for the motor vehicle to be operated in a safe and lawful
manner upon the roadways and highways in the state of Idaho, as set forth in Idaho Code Chapter
49.
VETERINARY SERVICES: Any structure that is designed or used for the medical or surgical
treatment of animals in which veterinary services, including boarding incidental to treatment, are
limited to short term care.
WAREHOUSE: A structure used primarily for storing materials including, but not limited to,
goods, wares, merchandise, or vehicles.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL: An installation that collects and treats
domestic wastewater from one property and uses, at a minimum, subsurface disposal of effluent
and conforms to the rules, regulations, and adopted plans of the health authority.
WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES: The activities, tools, equipment, and methods
designed to reduce water demand, improve the efficiency of its use, and reduce loss and waste.
WATER RESTRICTIONS: A constraint placed on water use by Ada County to reduce water
demand and prevent water waste.
WATERCOURSE: A natural or man-made channel or conveyance system carrying water.
Watercourses may include, but not be limited to, rivers, creeks, streams, lakes, ponds, reservoirs,
irrigation ditches, laterals, drains, sloughs, and canals. An on-site irrigation distribution system or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 303
drainage ditch shall not be deemed a watercourse.
WATERWISE: Refers to plants that evolved in regions with lower precipitation, thus requiring
less water throughout the growing season than traditional landscape plants.
WELL HOUSE: A structure encasing a well, used to provide domestic water.
WELL, ON SITE: A domestic well that serves one property and is located on the property it serves.
WETLANDS: Official wetlands as listed on the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service National Wetlands
Inventory Map, officially listed by the Army Corp of Engineers, or listed in a current Wetland
Delineation Report completed by a licensed professional.
WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTION AND WAREHOUSING: The storage of goods, and the sale of
goods to other firms for resale, including activities involving significant storage and movement of
products or equipment. This use does not involve manufacturing or production. Examples include:
carting; cold storage; distribution facilities (as defined below); dry goods wholesale; express
crating; hauling; feed locker plants; fulfillment centers that combine storage with call centers;
hardware storage; merchant wholesalers (such as restaurant supply sales); warehouse or
produce/fruit/food storage and wholesale structures; wholesale sale of paper supplies, shoes,
sporting goods, professional and commercial equipment and supplies; and otherwise preparing
goods for transportation. A "distribution facility" means the intake of goods and merchandise,
individually or in bulk, the short-term holding or storage of such goods or merchandise, and/or the
breaking up into lots or parcels and subsequent shipment off-site of such goods and merchandise.
Distribution may be provided to an entity with an identity of interest with the distribution facility
or to businesses and individuals unrelated to the distributor. The term "Distribution Facility" also
includes a transshipment facility for the temporary holding, storage and shipment of goods or
vehicles.
WIND FACILITY TOWER HEIGHT: The distance from the finished grade at the wind generation
tower base to the highest point of the tower, including the base pad, mounting structures and
blades, but not including lightning rods.
WIND FACILITY, ROOFTOP: A wind facility mounted to a residential, agricultural, or accessory
structure.
WIND FACILITY: A wind energy conversion system that converts wind energy into electricity
through the use of a wind driven turbine generator, consisting of one or more wind turbines or
other such devices and their related or supporting facilities that produce electric power from wind.
WINERY: An establishment for the manufacture or bottling of wine. A winery may include, but
is not limited to, the following: a tasting room, barrel rooms, bottling rooms, tank rooms,
laboratories, sale of wine, processing structure, and offices.
WOOD, METAL, AND STONE SHOP: Stone cutting, welding, blacksmith, tinsmith, and
woodworking shops with accessory enclosed storage. Includes establishments that:
       1. cut, shape, and finish marble, granite, slate, and other stone for building and
          miscellaneous uses, or
       2. buy or sell partly finished monuments and tombstones, or
       3. transform metal into intermediate or end products (other than machinery, computers,
          or electronics) through fabricated metal processes, or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 304
          4. treat metals and metal formed products fabricated elsewhere. Fabricated metal
             processes include forging, stamping, bending, forming, and machining, used to shape
             individual pieces of metal, and other processes (such as welding and assembling) used
             to join separate parts together.
YARD, FRONT: An area extending across the full width of the property and lying between the
front property line and the nearest line of a principal structure.
YARD, REAR: An area extending across the full width of the property and lying between the rear
property line and the nearest line of the principal structure.
YARD, REQUIRED: An area that extends along a property line to a depth or width specified in
the setback regulations for the district in which the property is located. (See subsection 8-3-2F of
this Title for allowed projections into required yards.)
YARD, SIDE: An area extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the side property
line and the nearest line of the principal structure.
YEAR-ROUND STREAM: Any stream that flows all year long during years of normal rainfall or
any stream used by salmonids.
ZERO LOT LINE: The location of a structure on a lot in such a manner that one or more of the
structure's sides rests directly on a lot line.
ZONING CERTIFICATE: A document issued by the Director that certifies that the structure or
use meets the requirements of this Title.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The Ada County Zoning Ordinance. This term may also be referred to
as “Title.”

8-10-3:      Acronyms and Abbreviations
   ACHD – Ada County Highway District
   ACI – Area of City Impact
   ADA – Americans with Disabilities Act
   ADU – Accessory Dwelling Unit
   AFO – Animal Feeding Operation
   AU – Animal Unit
   AMI – Area of Military Influence
   BAT – Boise Air Terminal Airport Influence Areas
   BRG – Boise River Greenway
   C1 – Neighborhood Commercial
   C2 – Community Commercial
   CDHD – Central District Health Department
   COMPASS – Community Planning Association of Southwest Idaho
   CUP – Conditional Use Permit
   DEQ – (Idaho) Department of Environmental Quality
   ESD – Ecological Site Descriptions
   FAA – Federal Aviation Administration
   FH – Flood Hazard
   HS – Hillside
   IDFG – Idaho Department of Fish and Game

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 305
   IDT – Idaho Department of Transportation
   IPUC – Idaho Public Utilities Commission
   LO – Limited Office
   PC – Planned Community
   PUD – Planned Unit Development
   R1 – Estate Residential
   R2 – Low Density Residential
   R4 – Medium Low Density Residential
   R6 – Medium Density Residential
   R8 – Medium High Density Residential
   R12 – High Density Residential
   R20 – Very High Density Residential
   RP – Rural Preservation
   RR – Rural Residential
   RSW – Southwest Community Residential
   RUT – Rural-Urban Transition.
   SPA – Southwest Planning Area
   USFWS – United States Fish and Wildlife Service
   WUI – Wildland-Urban Interface
   VRT – Valley Regional Transit


                                       CHAPTER 11
                                       (RESERVED)


                                       CHAPTER 12
       PLANNED COMMUNITY SUBAREA DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-12-1:       PURPOSE
8-12-2:       APPLICABILITY
8-12-3:       (RESERVED)
8-12-4:       URBAN PUBLIC SERVICE LEVEL STANDARDS
8-12-5:       GENERAL STANDARDS
8-12-6:       APPLICATION SUBMISSION STANDARDS
8-12-7:       COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AMENDMENT APPLICATION
8-12-8:       IMPLEMENTATION PLAN APPLICATION
8-12-9:       ANNEXATION STANDARDS
8-12-1:    Purpose. The purpose of this Chapter is to provide processes and development
standards for the development of planned communities to allow urban type development within
unincorporated Ada County, except as may be modified by Title 9 of this code.
8-12-2:   Applicability. This Chapter applies to the development of planned communities within
unincorporated Ada County. Planned community developments proposed in an area of city impact
may require an application to amend the area of city impact agreement.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 306
8-12-3:      (Reserved)
8-12-4:     Urban Public Service Level Standards. The planned community implementation plan
shall describe how urban public services and additional public services at the service levels
identified below will be provided in the planned community. Provided, however, in areas of city
impact an urban public service level standard specifically provided in the appropriate area of city
impact agreement in Title 9 of this code, if any, shall supersede the specific urban public service
level standard provided in this Section.
   A. Minimum Urban Public Service Level Standards. Each planned community shall
      provide all of the following categories of urban public services in accordance with the
      stated minimum standard for each:
          Urban Public Service Category   Minimum Service Level
          Urban Public Service Category   Minimum Service Level
          Electricity                     Electricity service to every buildable property.
          Telephone                       Telephone service to every buildable property.
          Water                           1. Drinking water service shall be provided to every buildable
                                          property within the planned community by a municipality, a
                                          private water company regulated by the Idaho Public Utilities
                                          Commission, or a water district established pursuant to Idaho
                                          Code Section 42-3201 et seq.
                                          2. Drinking water service shall maintain compliance with all
                                          applicable federal, state, and local rules and laws.
                                          3. All residential lots shall have an automated irrigation
                                          sprinkler system to minimize water usage and waste.
                                          4. All nonresidential lots shall have pressurized irrigation
                                          systems, using reclaimed water when available and
                                          permissible under all applicable federal, state, and local rules
                                          and laws.
                                          5. All irrigation systems and water uses shall comply with all
                                          applicable federal, state, and local rules and laws.
          Wastewater treatment            1. A centralized wastewater treatment and reuse service, or
                                          connection to an existing system shall be provided to every
                                          property within the planned community by a municipality, a
                                          private sewer company, or a sewer district established
                                          pursuant to Idaho Code Section 42-3201 et seq.
                                          2. Wastewater treatment and reuse service shall maintain
                                          compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local rules
                                          and laws.
                                          3. If treated wastewater will be used for irrigation, then the
                                          irrigated area and the amount of treated wastewater used for
                                          irrigation shall be identified in the planned community
                                          implementation plan, and shall comply with all applicable


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 307
                                 federal, state, and local rules and laws.
                                 4. For specific lots, the Board may waive or alter the
                                 centralized wastewater treatment requirement on a case-by-
                                 case basis where topography or other considerations make
                                 centralized service infeasible.
     Law enforcement             One (1) law enforcement officer per one thousand two
                                 hundred (1,200) residents.
     Fire protection             1. Location within a fire district.
                                 2. Fire protection shall be provided to all areas within the
                                 planned community with a response time of five (5) minutes
                                 or less for the arrival of the first arriving engine company at a
                                 fire suppression incident, as measured from the time the unit
                                 acknowledges notification of the emergency. (National Fire
                                 Protection Association 1710 Section 4.1.2.1 - 2004 edition).
                                 3. If a new fire station is required for the planned community
                                 to meet the response time, then location of the new fire station
                                 should comply with the master siting plan of the fire district.
     Paramedic services (EMS)    1. Five (5) minutes or less for the arrival of a unit with first
                                 responder or higher-level capability at an emergency medical
                                 incident, as measured from the time the unit acknowledges
                                 notification of the emergency for ninety percent (90%) of the
                                 anticipated population of the planned community. (National
                                 Fire Protection Association 1710 Section 4.1.2.1 - 2004
                                 edition).
                                 2. Nine (9) minutes or less for the arrival of an advanced life
                                 support (ALS) unit at an emergency medical incident, as
                                 measured from the time the unit acknowledges notification of
                                 the emergency for ninety percent (90%) of the anticipated
                                 population of the planned community. (National Fire
                                 Protection Association 1710 Section 4.1.2.1 - 2004 edition).
                                 3. If a new emergency services station is required for the
                                 planned community to meet the applicable response time, then
                                 location of the new emergency services station should comply
                                 with the master siting plan of the district.
     Schools                     1. Sufficient land shall be incorporated into the land use plan
                                 for elementary educational facilities to serve the planned
                                 community according to the applicable school district
                                 standard.
                                 2. Sufficient land shall be incorporated into the land use plan
                                 for middle school and high school educational facilities to
                                 serve the planned community according to the applicable


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 308
                                  school district standards.
                                  3. Elementary school sites shall be within one and a half
                                  (1.5) miles of fifty percent (50%) of the elementary age
                                  residents of the planned community.
     Transportation               1. Planned communities shall be designed to have an internal
                                  trip capture of at least fifteen percent (15%), as calculated
                                  using the methodology for estimating trip generation at
                                  multiuse sites in the latest edition of the ITE "Trip Generation
                                  Handbook" and/or any other methodology approved by
                                  ACHD, provided, however, that the appropriate standard
                                  established by the applicable area of city impact in Title 9 of
                                  this code may be used as an alternative.
                                  2. The planned community shall have a comprehensive
                                  transportation demand management program for the planned
                                  community that will reduce weekday peak period single
                                  occupant vehicle trips compared to the forecasted trip
                                  generation for the project without transportation demand
                                  management strategies. At a minimum, the transportation
                                  demand management program shall include: street widths to
                                  accommodate transit service; internal street connectivity
                                  consistent with ACHD's transportation land use integration
                                  plan; land for bus shelters (minimum of a five foot by eight
                                  foot [5’ x 8’] pad, as appropriate); Americans with disabilities
                                  act compliant sidewalks or pathways that are connected to the
                                  curb at bus stop locations as determined at the discretion of
                                  VRT; carpool and vanpool parking designations at
                                  commercial centers; park and ride facilities; lighting; and
                                  bicycle facilities. Trip reduction rate generated due to a
                                  transportation demand management program shall not be used
                                  in the traffic impact study analysis submitted to ACHD and
                                  ITD.
                                  3. Level of service on all public roadways shall be determined
                                  by the jurisdiction (ACHD or ITD) having authority over the
                                  roadways.
     Natural and developed open 1. A minimum of ten (10) acres per one thousand (1,000)
     space                      population of developed open space based on two and a half
                                (2.5) persons per dwelling unit.
                                  2. A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the total gross area
                                  of the planned community shall be dedicated to natural open
                                  space.
                                  3. A minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the total gross area
                                  of the planned community shall be dedicated to natural open



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 309
                                    space if the planned community is in the foothills.
                                    4. All-natural open space and developed open space shall be
                                    accessible to the public and shall be created and evidenced by
                                    recorded easements and plat notes, or other recorded
                                    instruments.
     Library                        Sufficient space shall be incorporated into the land use plan
                                    for library services to serve the planned community.
  B. Additional Service Standards. Each planned community must provide a minimum of six
     (6) of the following categories of additional services in accordance with the stated
     minimum standard for each:
     Additional Service Category   Minimum Standard
     Developed open space          A minimum of twelve (12) acres per one thousand
                                   (1,000) population based on two and a half (2.5) persons
                                   per dwelling unit.
     Natural open space            A minimum of sixteen and a half percent (16.5%) of the
                                   total gross area of the planned community shall be
                                   dedicated to natural open space.
     Multi-family housing          A minimum of ten percent (10%) of the total number of
                                   dwelling units.
     Workforce housing             A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of for sale housing
                                   (single-family and multi-family) priced for households
                                   earning one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the Ada
                                   County household median income or below.
     Rental housing                A minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the total rental
                                   units for multi- family housing priced for households
                                   earning up to eighty percent (80%) of the Ada County
                                   household median income.
     Green community               1. Water efficiency (e.g., low water plumbing fixtures in
                                   homes and buildings; primarily low water or xeric
                                   landscaping; limited turf).
                                   2. Energy efficiency (e.g., energy star homes or
                                   comparable standard).
                                   3. Materials efficiency (e.g., using less building
                                   materials than standard).
                                   4. Green infrastructure/design (e.g., application of
                                   reclaimed wastewater; groundwater recharge; less
                                   impermeable surface).




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 310
      Library                        1. A minimum standing collection of three and a half
                                     (3.5) volumes per resident.
                                     2. Provision of space at agreed upon stages of residential
                                     development consistent with one and a quarter (1.25)
                                     square feet per resident.
                                     3. Staffing of one (1) full-time employee per one
                                     thousand (1,000) residents.
                                     4. One (1) public computer per one thousand (1,000)
                                     residents with a minimum of three (3) public computers
                                     in any library space.
      Schools                        1. Donation of land for educational facility beyond that
                                     needed to primarily serve the planned community
                                     population.
                                     2. Site size and location and donation requirements must
                                     be in accordance with adopted school district standards.
      Mixed use district             Five thousand (5,000) square feet finished building
                                     space per one thousand (1,000) residents (appropriately
                                     phased).
      Employment                     Office Park, industrial park, or other area sufficient for
                                     fifty (50) employees.
      Walkability                    Ninety percent (90%) of dwelling units located within
                                     one half (0.5) mile walking distance to neighborhood
                                     shops/services and/or developed open space.
      Trip capture                   At least fifteen and three quarters percent (15.75%)
                                     internal trip capture as calculated using the methodology
                                     for estimating trip generation at multiuse sites in the
                                     latest edition of the ITE "Trip Generation Handbook"
                                     and/or any other methodology approved by ACHD.
      Other                          Must be approved by Director or Board.


   C. Waiver. The Board may waive or alter one or more of the public service standards in this
      Section on a case-by-case basis. The request and justification for such waiver shall be
      submitted as part of subsection 8-12-7C.7 of this Chapter.
8-12-5:  General Standards. The following standards shall be applicable to all planned
communities:
   A. The planned community shall have a Community Conservation Director responsible for,
      but not limited to, conservation efforts, environmental and recreational management and
      environmental education for the community, and implementation of mitigation actions
      outlined in the wildlife and habitat management plan. The Community Conservation

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 311
          Director shall have the qualifications required by subsection 8-12-6A6 of this Chapter. The
          planned community shall have a Community Conservation Advisory Committee including,
          but not limited to, the Community Conservation Director, a representative from Idaho
          Department of Fish and Game; Bureau of Land Management; Ada County Development
          Services; Natural Resource Conservation Service; Ada Soil and Water Conservation
          District, and the Planned Community Homeowners' Association. Progress reports from the
          Community Conservation Director will be provided to the Community Conservation
          Advisory Committee. The Community Conservation Advisory Committee shall review the
          progress reports and where necessary, recommend to the Community Conservation
          Director and the Director changes in management direction or alteration of the wildlife and
          habitat management plan objectives.
   B. The planned community's internal roadway network and connectivity to the regional
      transportation system shall be designed to conform to Idaho Transportation Department's
      (ITD) and Ada County Highway District's (ACHD) current access management policies,
      interim policies, and corridor studies. Cross access easements shall be provided to adjacent
      properties when determined necessary by ITD, ACHD and/or Ada County.
   C. The planned community's internal trail and pathway network and connectivity to the
      regional trail and pathway system shall be designed to conform to the Ada County Parks,
      Open Space and Trails Plan, and the Ada County Ridge to Rivers Pathway Plan, or the
      applicable city's trailway and path plan(s) if located in an area of city impact.
8-12-6:      Application Submission Standards
   A. Qualifications. All technical reports and recommendations shall be prepared under the
      supervision of and signed by a qualified expert in each relevant field based on the following
      qualifications:
          1. Hazardous Areas, Hydrology, And Soils. Professional engineer licensed in the state
             of Idaho;
          2. Economist. A professional who demonstrates experience in community development,
             land use, and/or public administration, specifically with regard to land development
             feasibility, public services provision, public finance policy, and the economic and fiscal
             impacts of private development. A graduate degree in economics, public finance, or
             public administration and at least seven (7) years of experience; or a bachelor's degree
             in economics, public finance, or public administration and at least ten (10) years of
             experience; or a bachelor's degree and at least fifteen (15) years of experience;
          3. Planner. A professional who is engaged in professional planning, either currently or
             in the past, as defined by the American Institute Of Certified Planners (AICP), and who
             has completed a graduate degree in planning, from a program accredited by the
             planning accreditation Board (PAB), plus two (2) years of professional planning
             experience; or a bachelor's degree in planning, from a PAB accredited program, plus
             three (3) years of professional planning experience; or any other postgraduate, graduate
             or undergraduate degree plus four (4) years of professional planning experience; or no
             college degree plus eight (8) years of professional planning experience;
          4. Transportation. A professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho;



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 312
          5. Historical and Cultural Resource Findings. Archaeologists, history, and
             architectural history consultants with submitted documentation that they have
             demonstrated that they meet the secretary of the interior's 36 CFR 61 qualifications;
          6. Wildlife Habitat Mitigation Plan and Habitat Analysis. A professional(s) whose
             experience demonstrates considerable knowledge of planning and conducting field
             research for wildlife habitat projects, and formulating specific plans to mitigate wildlife
             habitat impacts. For the wildlife component, a graduate degree in wildlife biology or a
             closely related field and at least two (2) years of experience; or a bachelor's degree in
             wildlife biology or a closely related field and at least four (4) years of experience; or a
             bachelor's degree and at least eight (8) years of experience. For the vegetative
             component, a graduate degree in botany, plant ecology, or closely related field and at
             least two (2) years of experience; or a bachelor's degree in botany, plant ecology, or
             closely related field and at least four (4) years of experience; or a bachelor's degree and
             at least eight (8) years of experience;
          7. Wetlands. A professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho or a certified wetlands
             specialist;
          8. Slope Stabilization. A professional engineer licensed in the State of Idaho;
          9. Revegetation. A licensed landscape architect whose experience demonstrates
             considerable knowledge in the implementation and execution of slope stabilization,
             revegetation projects, and vegetation management; and
          10. Groundwater. An individual or entity identified on the Department of Environmental
              Quality (DEQ) environmental consulting firms list (available on the DEQ website) or
              a hydrologist with technical background and experience in planning, conducting, and
              coordinating complex hydrologic studies in groundwater modeling and analysis.
   B. Digital Submissions
          1. Digital submissions, in a format approved by the Director, shall accompany all paper
             submissions; and
          2. Digital mapping shall be formatted to be compatible with the County's geographic
             information system.
   C. Mapping. All maps shall have a legend, north arrow, scale, title, and author.
8-12-7:      Comprehensive Plan Amendment Application
   A. Purpose. To analyze the existing conditions of the site and regional impacts from the
      proposed development to determine the appropriateness of the location and the feasibility
      of the development's success; to plan for and ensure the availability of urban public
      services; to create a Planned Community Subarea Comprehensive Plan specific to the
      subarea.
   B. Process. All requests for the creation of a Planned Community Subarea Comprehensive
      Plan shall comply with the following:
          1. Public Services Scoping Session(s). Prior to application submission a scoping work
             session shall be held with Ada County Development Services and may include affected
             public service providers and regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, Idaho


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 313
        Department of Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water Resources, Central
        District Health Department, the Army Corps of Engineers, and military officials if the
        planned community is within the AMI;
     2. Transportation Scoping Session(s). Prior to application submission a scoping work
        session shall be held with Ada County development services and may include affected
        transportation agencies, including, but not limited to, Ada County Highway District,
        Idaho Transportation Department, Community Planning Association of Southwest
        Idaho (COMPASS), and Valley Regional Transit (VRT).
     3. Public Involvement.
        a. Purpose. The purpose of the public involvement sessions is to provide interested
           members of the public the opportunity to be involved in the review of the proposed
           planned community subarea comprehensive plan prior to concept finalization.
        b. Process. Prior to application submission a minimum of two (2) public involvement
           sessions shall be held. The Director or their designee, all cities in Ada County,
           counties with borders contiguous to the proposed planned community, all registered
           neighborhood associations in Ada County, and all property owners within one mile
           of the proposed planned community subarea comprehensive plan boundaries, shall
           be invited to each meeting via mailed notices. Property owners may be invited using
           alternative forms of notice in compliance with Section 8-6-8 of this Title. In
           addition, the applicant/owner shall publish a notice of the time and place of the
           sessions in the official newspaper of general circulation in the County.
            1. Planning Type Process. The public involvement sessions shall be a facilitated
               planning type process where interested parties and the developer can work
               collaboratively with each other in reviewing the proposed planned community
               subarea comprehensive plan concepts.
            2. Location. The meeting shall be held at one of the following locations:
                a. On the subject property;
                b. At a nearby available public meeting place including, but not limited to, fire
                   station, library, or community center; or
                c. At an office space with suitable meeting facilities.
            3. Verification. The application materials shall include a written verification that
               the public involvement sessions took place.
     4. Application Types. A comprehensive plan text amendment and zoning ordinance map
        amendment shall be submitted as described below and in Sections 8-6-14, 8-6-33 and
        8-6-34 of this Title.
     5. Transmittals. In addition to transmittal requirements identified in Section 8-6-8 of this
        Title, a complete copy of the application shall be provided by Ada County to the
        providers of the urban public services for the area covered by the planned community
        subarea comprehensive plan.
  C. Application Requirements. The following analyses, reports and reviews supporting the
     proposed planned community subarea comprehensive plan goals and policies shall be


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 314
     submitted:
     1. Population. A population analysis of pertinent historical and future trends of the Boise
        Metropolitan Area and Ada County as context for the proposed planned community,
        including such characteristics as total population, household population, household
        size, household income, age, and gender. The analysis shall include at a minimum:
        a. A written assessment of population and household demographic trends in the Boise
           metropolitan area and Ada County as a determinant of planned community design;
        b. A written assessment of population and household growth projections in the Boise
           Metropolitan Area and Ada County including consideration of established regional
           or state projections utilized for public planning purposes; and
        c. A written assessment demonstrating the adequacy of the location and proposed land
           uses of the planned community in accommodating demonstrated population
           household and demographic growth trends in the Boise metropolitan area and Ada
           County.
     2. School Facilities and Transportation. An analysis of public school capacity and
        associated transportation considerations for the proposed planned community. The
        analysis shall be developed in coordination with the applicable school district(s) and
        shall include at a minimum:
        a. A map depicting existing school facilities within one mile of the planned
           community boundary, including any school district boundary lines;
        b. A determination of the specific school district(s) that will provide public education
           services to planned community residents;
        c. A written assessment describing potential school enrollment generated by the
           planned community including detail of elementary, middle, and high school
           enrollment consistent with enrollment projection standards of the affected school
           district(s).
        d. A written assessment describing public school facility needs, if any, within the
           planned community as a result of anticipated enrollment generated by the planned
           community consistent with capital facilities planning standards of the affected
           school district; and
        e. A written assessment describing public school student transportation needs, if any,
           from the planned community to school facilities off site consistent with student
           transportation standards of the affected school district(s), the public-school capacity
           and transportation.
     3. Economic Development. An analysis of the economic base of the area, including,
        employment, industries, economies, jobs, and income levels. The analysis shall include
        at a minimum:
        a. A written assessment demonstrating that the planned community is reasonably
           supported by economic and market conditions in Ada County and the Boise
           metropolitan area. This assessment shall include conceptual information about the
           following:


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 315
            1. Projected dwelling unit counts, build out/absorption and occupancy in the
               context of regional growth trends, identified demographic trends and competing
               development;
            2. Likely residential product types and price ranges in current dollars suitable for
               development within the planned community as a function of planned
               community location and physical features, anticipated market conditions, and
               likely demographics as identified in the population section of the planned
               community comprehensive plan;
            3. Planned commercial buildings/gross space, if any, and anticipated build
               out/absorption in the context of regional growth trends, residential development
               at the planned community, and locational features including transportation and
               access; and
            4. Planned industrial building/gross space, if any, and anticipated build
               out/absorption in the context of regional growth trends, industrial land utilizing
               industry trends, and proximate infrastructure.
        b. A written assessment of current dollar costs associated with both private and public
           infrastructure and facility improvements required to provide urban public services
           to the site broken out into private and public categories. This assessment shall
           include an analysis of unique conditions of the site consistent with the natural
           resources inventory required by subsection C5a of this Section, which may
           contribute to an increased cost in providing urban public facilities and urban public
           services.
     4. Land Use. An analysis of natural land types, existing land covers and uses, and the
        intrinsic suitability of lands for uses such as agriculture, forestry, mineral exploration
        and extraction, preservation, recreations, housing, commerce, industry, and public
        facilities. Proposed general land uses shall be developed consistent with the natural
        resource and wildlife inventory analysis as required by subsection C5 of this Section.
        The analysis shall include at a minimum:
        a. A map depicting existing land uses and zoning within one (1) of the proposed
           planned community boundary (including interior boundaries, if any).
        b. A written assessment describing the general categories of existing land uses and
           zoning within one (1) mile of the proposed planned community boundary
           (including interior boundaries, if any);
        c. A map depicting proposed general land uses and densities within the proposed
           planned community and within one mile of the proposed planned community
           boundary (including interior boundaries, if any), including intensity of
           nonresidential uses, and developed and natural open space. Land uses and densities
           outside of the planned community boundary shall be based on the future land use
           designations of the applicable comprehensive plan; and
        d. A written assessment describing the general categories of proposed land uses within
           the proposed planned community and within one (1) mile of the proposed planned
           community boundary (including interior boundaries, if any) including conceptual
           intensity of nonresidential uses, net density, and potential impacts to adjacent

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 316
            properties as a result of the proposed land uses.
     5. Natural Resources and Wildlife Inventory. An analysis including the uses of rivers
        and other waters, forests, range, soils, harbors, fisheries, minerals, thermal water,
        beaches, watersheds, and shorelines, and an analysis of existing wildlife and habitat
        conditions. The analyses shall include at a minimum:
        a. Natural Resources Inventory
            1. A map depicting, and a written assessment of, the following: topography;
               wetlands; soils from the most recent soil survey information; prime agricultural
               land; mineral resources; and rivers and other bodies of water; and
            2. A written assessment of the effect the planned community will have on the
               source, quantity and quality of ground and surface water in the area.
        b. Wildlife Habitat Inventory
            1. Aerial photography of sufficient quality and scale to show land unit boundaries,
               geological features, vegetation types, creeks, riparian areas and wetlands, roads,
               trails, and other landscape features;
            2. A map prepared in consultation with Idaho Department of Fish and Game,
               generally depicting and a written assessment (including methodologies used) of
               the following:
               a. Site resources including vegetation/habitat types (including noxious
                  weeds), and wildlife;
               b. Existing vegetation condition based on ecological site descriptions (ESD)
                  from the latest version of the "Indicators of Rangeland Health;"
               c. Special status species and threatened and endangered species based on
                  Idaho Fish and Game conservation data, and United States Department of
                  Interior, United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) information;
               d. Both current and potential use of big game winter range, and where
                  appropriate pronghorn antelope, based upon Idaho Department of Fish and
                  Game (IDFG) data. Site specific surveys may be used to supplement IDFG
                  data;
               e. Structure and function of existing wildlife habitats, including connectivity,
                  habitat fragmentation, and wildlife corridors;
               f. Priority habitat based upon the Idaho Comprehensive Wildlife Conservation
                  Strategy, except, if a planned community is planned adjacent to or in the
                  vicinity of bureau of land management and/or United States forest service
                  managed federal lands, the species lists shall be cross referenced with the
                  respective agency lists; and
               g. Existing human disturbance to wildlife and habitat as a result of livestock,
                  transportation, recreation, agriculture and development within a minimum
                  of one mile of the planned community boundary.
     6. Hazardous Areas. An analysis of known hazards as may result from susceptibility to


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 317
        surface ruptures from faulting, ground shaking, ground failure, landslides, or
        mudslides; avalanche hazards resulting from development in the known or probable
        path of snow slides and avalanches, floodplain, and wildfire hazards. The analysis shall
        include at a minimum a map and written assessment of known hazards.
     7. Urban Public Services and Urban Public Facilities. An analysis showing general
        plans for urban public services and urban public facilities. The plan may also show
        locations of civic centers and public buildings. The plan shall be developed in
        coordination with the affected public service providers and regulatory agencies. The
        plan shall include, at a minimum:
        a. A map depicting existing urban public services and urban public facilities within
           one (1) mile of the proposed planned community boundary;
        b. A written assessment of existing urban public services and urban public facilities
           within one (1) mile of the proposed planned community boundary, including
           availability and adequacy to serve the proposed land uses and population, and a
           description of the impacts to existing levels of service as a result of such utilization;
        c. A map depicting proposed urban public services and urban public facilities
           projected to serve the proposed land uses and population including conceptual
           location, distribution, extent, and intensity of such, including major system
           components and any projected additions and/or extensions to existing urban public
           services and urban public facilities;
        d. A written assessment of proposed urban public services and urban public facilities
           including availability and adequacy to serve the proposed land uses and population,
           the projected location, distribution, extent, and intensity of such, including major
           system components and any projected additions, extensions, and improvements to
           existing urban public services and urban public facilities;
        e. A written assessment of water rights detailing the applicability and availability of
           such, including a description of any applications and/or permits that are required
           by the Idaho department of water resources; and
        f. A determination of reasonable access, per Idaho Department of Environmental
           Quality (DEQ) policy, issued by DEQ.
     8. Transportation. An analysis of impacts to the regional transportation system resulting
        from the proposed land uses and population prepared in coordination with, as
        applicable, the Idaho Transportation Department, Ada County Highway District,
        Community Planning Association of Southwest Idaho, Valley Regional Transit, and
        any other local jurisdiction(s) having authority over the public highways and streets
        materially affected by the planned community. The traffic impact study shall be
        submitted to ITD and ACHD thirty (30) days prior to submission of the planned
        community subarea comprehensive plan application to the Director.
     9. Recreation. An analysis showing the existing system of recreation and natural and
        developed open space areas, including parks, parkways, trailways, riverbank
        greenbelts, beaches, playgrounds, and other recreation areas and programs within one
        (1) mile of the boundaries of the proposed planned community subarea comprehensive
        plan area. The analysis shall include at a minimum:

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 318
         a. A map depicting existing public recreation, open space areas, parks, and trails;
         b. A written assessment of existing public recreation, open space areas, parks, trails,
            and programs;
         c. A map of proposed conceptual, natural, and developed open space, or a reference
            to the land use section of the planned community comprehensive plan; and
         d. A written assessment of proposed conceptual natural and developed open space and
            programs, or a reference to the land use section of the planned community
            comprehensive plan.
     10. Special Areas or Sites. An analysis of areas, sites, or structures of historical,
         archeological, architectural, ecological, wildlife, or scenic significance. The analysis
         shall include at a minimum a written assessment of those sites and areas of significance.
     11. Housing. An analysis of housing conditions and needs; plans for improvement of
         housing standards; and plans for the provision of safe, sanitary, and adequate housing,
         including the provision for affordable and low-cost conventional housing. The analysis
         shall be developed in accordance with subsection C1 of this Section and shall include
         at a minimum a written assessment including:
         a. Housing conditions and needs within the region;
         b. Housing options, including single-family, multi-family, condominiums,
            apartments, live/work, mixed use units and affordable and low-cost conventional
            housing; and
         c. A discussion of how the planned community will provide for the housing needs of
            the projected population, as identified in subsection C1 of this Section.
     12. Community Design. A clear description of the vision of the desired future state of the
         planned community that provides direction for strategic planning. A general
         description of the regulations that will be created and utilized for the control of
         landscaping, building design, tree planting, signs, and suggested patterns and standards
         of community design, development, and beautification. The analysis shall be developed
         in consideration of the vision of the planned community comprehensive plan and shall
         include at a minimum:
         a. A written assessment of the above referenced items; and
         b. Illustrative examples of the proposed vision for the community.
  D. Required Planned Community Subarea Comprehensive Plan Goals and Policies. The
     planned community subarea comprehensive plan text amendment application shall include
     a proposed planned community subarea comprehensive plan to be used to guide future
     development taking into account the vision of the proposed planned community and the
     analysis, reports, and reviews required in subsection C of this Section. The planned
     community subarea comprehensive plan goals and policies should include, at a minimum,
     the following elements:
     1. Population. Goals and policies addressing population, including at a minimum the
        desired density for the planned community by subset generally and overall including a
        minimum net density goal of three (3) residential dwelling units per acre.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 319
     2. School Facilities and Transportation. Goals and policies describing how public
        school capacity and associated transportation considerations for the proposed planned
        community will be addressed including at a minimum:
        a. Ensure that school facilities are safe and accessible by automobile, transit, walking
           and bicycling, and require minimal need for school operated busing; and
        b. Ensure that schools are sited to be complementary to and compatible with
           surrounding neighborhoods to avoid conflicts with incompatible land uses and/or
           adverse conditions.
     3. Economic Development. Goals and policies addressing economic development within
        the proposed planned community including at a minimum:
        a. The planned community will provide for a variety of ownership and rental
           residential units suitable for Ada County population and work force growth;
        b. The planned community should provide commercial services and dedicated
           employment use areas on site, unless designed around an existing commercial or
           employment center, to measurably reduce planned community resident vehicle
           miles traveled; and
        c. The planned community shall develop in an economically sustainable and
           financially self-supporting manner.
     4. Land Use. Goals and policies addressing land use that are consistent with the vision
        for the planned community.
     5. Natural Resources. Goals and policies including the following that at a minimum:
        a. Protect wildlife habitat by avoiding fragmentation of habitat corridors;
        b. Protect water quality;
        c. Protect development from flood hazards;
        d. Preserve existing healthy trees and rare plants;
        e. Preserve existing prime farmland, riparian areas, and wetlands;
        f. Minimize development on areas subject to the regulations of the hillside overlay
           district; and
        g. Provide an accessible system of greenways and trails.
     6. Hazardous Areas. Goals and policies for identifying and avoiding development in
        hazardous areas.
     7. Urban Public Services. Goals and policies guiding development in such a way as to
        provide urban public services and facilities in self-supporting units, and including the
        following that at a minimum:
        a. Ensure utility systems are adequate and meet the needs of the residents and
           businesses;
        b. Minimize energy consumption and water demands through conservation methods;
        c. Ensure environmentally sound management of services; and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 320
        d. Meet the required urban service level standards, with, or without, a transition plan.
     8. Transportation. Goals and policies regarding transportation, including the following
        that at a minimum:
        a. Ensure ongoing coordination with ITD, ACHD, COMPASS and VRT;
        b. Establish context sensitive street cross sections that safely convey existing and
           projected traffic;
        c. Develop and adopt a menu of traffic calming provisions; and
        d. Ensure consistency with any adopted regional or local transportation plans,
           including pedestrian, bicycle transit, corridor plans, and communities in motion.
     9. Recreation. Goals and policies addressing recreation including, at a minimum
        consistency, with any adopted regional or local plans.
     10. Special Areas or Sites. Goals and policies for protecting areas, sites, or structures of
         historical, archeological, architectural, ecological, wildlife, or scenic significance.
     11. Housing. Goals and policies supporting a variety of housing.
     12. Community Design. Goals and policies outlining the vision for community design
         including at a minimum:
        a. Pedestrian focused design elements such as continuous sidewalks or equivalent
           provisions for walking and orienting the principal functional entry of each building
           on a front facade that faces a public space such as a street, square, park, paseo, or
           plaza;
        b. A goal for providing two (2) or more community gathering areas sized to meet the
           needs of the planned community residents;
        c. A goal of path and trail linkages between all neighborhoods, developed open space,
           schools, neighborhood shops/services, transit facilities, and alternate modes of
           transportation and, where applicable, connectivity with nearby public trails and
           public lands.
  E. Required Findings. In order to amend the Ada County Comprehensive Plan to allow a
     Planned Community Subarea Comprehensive Plan the Board of Ada County
     Commissioners must make all of the following findings:
     1. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea comprehensive plan adequately addresses the future housing needs of the Boise
        metropolitan area and Ada County population growth;
     2. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea comprehensive plan adequately addresses the educational needs of the
        proposed population;
     3. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea comprehensive plan is reasonably supported by economic and market
        conditions in Ada County and the Boise metropolitan area;
     4. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 321
             subarea comprehensive plan adequately provides for a mixture of land uses including,
             but not limited to, low-cost housing;
          5. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
             subarea comprehensive plan adequately protects fish, wildlife, and recreation
             resources;
          6. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
             subarea comprehensive plan adequately avoids undue water and air pollution;
          7. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
             subarea comprehensive plan ensures that important environmental features are
             protected;
          8. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
             subarea comprehensive plan adequately protects life and property in areas subject to
             natural hazards and disasters;
          9. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
             subarea comprehensive plan encourages the protection of prime agricultural, forestry,
             and mining lands for production of food, fiber, and minerals;
          10. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
              subarea comprehensive plan ensures that the development is consistent with the
              physical characteristics of the land;
          11. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
              subarea comprehensive plan demonstrates that the planned community subarea
              comprehensive plan adequately addresses urban public services;
          12. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
              subarea comprehensive plan ensures that adequate transportation facilities and services
              are provided for the proposed planned community subarea;
          13. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
              subarea comprehensive plan adequately addresses the needs of the regional
              transportation network;
          14. Growth in the proposed planned community subarea will not adversely impact existing
              regional conditions; and
          15. The planned community subarea comprehensive plan text amendment contains the
              comprehensive plan components required by subsection D of this Section.
8-12-8:      Implementation Plan Application
   A. Purpose. To develop a plan that specifies future implementation strategies of a planned
      community; to create a plan that includes mitigation measures, phasing, actions, programs,
      budgets, ordinance(s), and timing of infrastructure improvements; and to demonstrate how
      the development of the planned community will comply with the planned community
      subarea comprehensive plan.
   B. Process. All requests for the creation of a planned community implementation plan shall
      comply with the following:


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 322
     1. Time of Submission. A planned community implementation plan must be submitted
        to the Director no later than four (4) years after the date of approval of the planned
        community subarea comprehensive plan. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
        Code to the contrary, no time extensions shall be allowed.
     2. Public Services Scoping Session(s). Prior to planned community implementation plan
        application submission, a scoping work session shall be required by the Director and
        consist of Ada County Development Services and may include affected public service
        providers and regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, Idaho Department of
        Environmental Quality, Idaho Department of Water Resources, Central District Health
        Department, the Army Corps of Engineers, and military officials if the planned
        community is within the AMI.
     3. Transportation Scoping Session(s). Prior to planned community implementation plan
        application submission, a scoping work session shall be required by the Director and
        consist of Ada County Development Services and may include affected transportation
        agencies, including, but not limited to, Ada County Highway District, Idaho
        Transportation Department, Community Planning Association of Southwest Idaho
        (COMPASS), and Valley Regional Transit (VRT).
     4. Public Involvement Sessions
        a. Purpose. The purpose of the public involvement sessions is to provide interested
           members of the public the opportunity to be involved in review of the proposed
           community design prior to concept finalization.
        b. Process. Prior to application submission a minimum of two (2) public involvement
           sessions shall be held. At a minimum the Director or their designee; and cities,
           registered neighborhood associations, and all property owners within one mile of
           the proposed subarea boundaries shall be invited to each meeting via mailed
           notices. Property owners within one mile may be notified by alternate means in
           compliance with subsection 8-6-8B.4 of this Title. In addition, the applicant/owner
           shall publish a notice of the time and place of the sessions in the official newspaper
           of general circulation in the County.
            1. Review Design/Input. The public involvement sessions shall provide
               interested parties the opportunity to review the proposed community design and
               provide input.
            2. Location. The meeting shall be held at one of the following locations:
                a. On the subject property;
                b. At a nearby available public meeting place including, but not limited to, fire
                   station, library, or community center; or
                c. At an office space with suitable meeting facilities.
            3. Verification. The application materials shall include a written verification that
               the public involvement sessions took place.
     5. Additional Applications. A zoning ordinance text amendment application and a
        zoning ordinance map amendment application creating the planned community district


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 323
        shall be submitted concurrently with the planned community implementation plan
        application and development agreement, as outlined in Sections 8-6-17, 8-6-33, and 8-
        6-34. A preliminary plat application may be submitted concurrently with the planned
        community implementation plan application.
     6. Transmittals. In addition to transmittal requirements identified in Section 8-6-8 of this
        Title, a complete copy of the application shall be provided by Ada County to the
        identified providers of urban public services for the proposed planned community. Ada
        County shall ask those providers to comment on whether the information for their
        agency is consistent with the information provided by the agency and that the service
        levels provided in this code can be achieved.
  C. Planned Community Implementation Plan Application Requirements. A planned
     community implementation plan application shall cover the entire boundary of the
     approved planned community and shall consist of the following material:
     1. Financing Plan: Plans to ensure construction of urban public facilities, and long-term
        operation and maintenance of urban public services. The financing plan, at a minimum,
        shall include the following for each phase of the planned community through build-out
        as follows:
        a. A brief narrative description, including:
            1. Type of facility or facilities planned, including identification of any affected
               public service provider;
            2. Description of phasing, including facilities upgrades and expansion of capacity,
               including anticipated timing of these steps, if applicable;
            3. Description of the entities responsible for ongoing operation and maintenance
               of each identified facility, and the planned revenue sources anticipated to
               support facility operation in perpetuity.
        b. A plan of construction costs and planned financing for each urban public facility
           by phase using the below provided example pro forma, including:
            1. Total construction costs and share of costs borne by the owner and partners;
            2. Funding sources by category, including fees, contribution(s) of owner and
               partners, and borrowing;
            3. Annual cash uses, including facility construction and/or expansion, additional
               land acquisition, debt retirement, and interest; and
            4. Total required funding.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 324
       Pro forma example:
URBAN PUBLIC FACILITY CONSTRUCTION PRO FORMA
Year         1                     2                      3     4          5       6       7       [...]
URBAN PUBLIC FACILITY CONSTRUCTION PRO FORMA
Year                                                      1     2     3        4   5       6   7   [...]
A.           Sources
             Fees
             Owner Equity
             Borrowing -
             Financing
             Total Sources
B.           Uses
             Construction
             Expansion
             Additional Land
             Debt Service/
             Return on Capital
             Total Uses
SURPLUS/DEFICIT


                 c. A plan of operation and maintenance financing for each urban public service using
                    the example pro forma provided below, including:
                     1. Annual operation and maintenance costs;
                     2. Capital renewal and replacement costs (capital reserve account);
                     3. Estimated annual revenue, identified by sources;
                     4. Estimated annual private funding required, if any, to ensure continuation of
                        urban public services; and
                     5. Private funding sources, contribution(s) of owner and partners, and borrowing.




       ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 325
       Pro forma example:
URBAN PUBLIC SERVICE REVENUE AND EXPENSE PRO FORMA
Year         1                      2                      3       4   5            6     7           [...]
URBAN PUBLIC SERVICE REVENUE AND EXPENSE PRO FORMA
Year                                                       1       2   3      4     5     6     7     [...]
A.           Revenue
             Connection Fees
             Service Fees
             Developer Contribution
             Borrowing -
             Financing
             Total Revenues
B.           Expenses
             O&M Costs
             Capital Reserve (Repair and Replacement)
             Debt Service/
             Return on Capital
             Total Expenses
SURPLUS/DEFICIT

             2. Phasing Plan. The phasing plan shall be developed in consideration of the financing
                plan and shall include at a minimum:
                 a. A map of anticipated phase line boundaries for the entire planned community;
                 b. A map of each anticipated phase including:
                    1. Land use designations, including residential, mixed use, commercial,
                       public/quasi-public, natural open space and developed open space;
                    2. Densities and nonresidential intensities;
                    3. Anticipated internal street network, including arterials and collectors; and
                    4. Regional anticipated internal trail system, including trails and trailheads.
                 c. A written assessment of the sequence of development including:
                    1. Anticipated commencement and completion times of each phase;
                    2. Distribution of land use designations;
                    3. Total area of each phase and anticipated population;
                    4. Implementation of urban public services by phase, including a transition plan if
                       required;


       ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 326
            5. Description on how each final plat is a self-supporting unit as defined by this
               Title; and
            6. How nonresidential uses and recreational opportunities will be phased to keep
               pace with housing.
     3. Wildlife And Habitat Management Plan. The wildlife and habitat management plan
        shall utilize the natural resources and habitat inventory of the adopted planned
        community comprehensive subarea plan to add impact assessment and mitigation
        components and update it with the following information:
        a. A narrative of potential direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts to natural
           resources, wildlife, and wildlife habitat within the project area, including potential
           secondary impacts to all land within one mile of the exterior boundary of the
           planned community;
        b. Method (information and/or calculations) used to evaluate impacts (e.g., buffers,
           mapping analysis, etc.);
        c. Mitigation goals and measurable objectives with reference to the impact(s) those
           goals are intended to mitigate;
        d. A description of natural open space management;
        e. A description of mitigation activities and implementation measures including
           actions and methods to meet goals, time line and estimated cost by development
           phase, management and monitoring plans, financing and funding sources, and
           alternative/adaptive management strategies; and
        f. A description of federal and state permitting requirements.
     4. Community Design. The community design plan shall include a design theme for each
        phase. A written assessment and illustrations shall be provided, including, but not
        limited to, conceptual context sensitive cross sections for the internal street network
        and any associated pedestrian improvements.
     5. Urban Public Services Plan. A plan showing how the development will meet each of
        the urban public service levels required in this code by phase, including a transition
        plan if required.
     6. Transportation. The previously approved traffic impact study shall be updated with a
        phasing analysis. This phasing analysis shall include the amount and type of proposed
        land uses within each phase and the anticipated mitigation measures necessary with
        each phase. The developer shall submit a comprehensive transportation demand
        management plan prepared in coordination with ITD, ACHD and VRT.
     7. Transition Plan. The Board may consider a transition plan that provides for a
        transition period from rural to urban service levels on a case-by-case basis. In those
        instances where the development proposes to meet urban public service level standards
        by providing programmed urban public facilities and/or programmed urban public
        services, a specific provision in the development agreement must be included, allowing
        no more than one year after approval of the implementation plan in which to have the
        specific facilities or services included in a district's capital improvements or service


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 327
             provision program. This transition plan may include advance payment of taxes for
             programmed urban public services and/or proportionate share payments for
             programmed urban public facilities.
   D. Findings. In order to approve an implementation plan, the Board must make all of the
      following findings:
          1. The implementation plan complies with the applicable comprehensive plan;
          2. The implementation plan demonstrates that urban public services will be provided to
             the planned community;
          3. The implementation plan demonstrates that the phasing of the planned community will
             maintain the integrity of the planned community at the end of each phase;
          4. The implementation plan financing plan demonstrates financial feasibility through
             planned community build-out;
          5. The implementation plan demonstrates that the long-term operations and maintenance
             associated with urban public services will be adequately funded;
          6. The implementation plan adequately mitigates for any identified impacts to natural
             resources and wildlife;
          7. The implementation plan demonstrates that the planned community effectively
             implements the required standards as found in Section 8-12-5 of this Chapter; and
          8. The implementation plan provides for design themes consistent with the community
             design goals of the planned community subarea comprehensive plan.
8-12-9:      Annexation Standards
   A. Purpose. To set standards for addition of acreage to a planned community; to allow for the
      updating of a planned community subarea comprehensive plan and a planned community
      implementation plan to cover additional land added to the planned community; to describe
      the application process; and to allow a streamlined process under appropriate conditions.
   B. Application Process
          1. All applications for the addition of incremental acreage to an existing planned
             community, which planned community was approved after the effective date hereof,
             shall be processed in compliance with the processes listed in Sections 8-12-7 and 8-12-
             8 of this Chapter.
             a. If, in the discretion of the Director, the addition of acreage to an existing planned
                community is found to pose minimal effect on the planned community
                comprehensive subarea plan, the planned community implementation plan, and to
                the region, then the planned community subarea comprehensive plan amendment
                application and the planned community subarea implementation plan amendment
                application may be processed concurrently.
             b. If, in the discretion of the Director, the addition of acreage to an existing planned
                community is found to pose material effect on the planned community
                comprehensive subarea plan, the planned community implementation plan, and to
                the region, then the planned community subarea comprehensive plan amendment


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 328
            and the planned community implementation plan amendment applications must be
            processed sequentially.
     2. All applications for the addition of incremental acreage to an existing planned
        community, which planned community was approved prior to the effective date hereof,
        require, as a prerequisite, that a planned community subarea comprehensive plan and a
        planned community implementation plan be created and approved for the planned
        community. Applications for the addition of acreage shall thereafter be processed in
        compliance with this Section.
  C. Application Requirements
     1. The planned community subarea comprehensive plan reports, reviews, and analyses
        shall be updated in compliance with subsection 8-12-7C of this Chapter. The applicant
        may use the adopted planned community subarea comprehensive plan goals and
        policies as appropriate.
     2. The planned community subarea comprehensive plan goals and policies shall be
        updated according to subsection 8-12-7D of this Chapter.
     3. The planned community implementation plan shall be updated in compliance with
        subsection 8-12-8C of this Chapter.
  D. Required Findings. In order to add incremental acreage to an existing planned community
     the Board of Ada County Commissioners must make all of the following findings:
     1. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea plan adequately addresses the future housing needs of the Boise metropolitan
        area and Ada County population growth;
     2. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea plan adequately addresses the educational needs of the proposed population;
     3. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea plan is reasonably supported by economic and market conditions in Ada
        County and the Boise metropolitan area;
     4. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned community
        subarea plan adequately provides for a mixture of land uses including, but not limited
        to, low-cost housing;
     5. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea plan adequately protects fish, wildlife, and recreation resources;
     6. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea plan adequately avoids undue water and air pollution;
     7. The updated comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned
        community subarea plan ensures that important environmental features are protected;
     8. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
        subarea plan adequately protects life and property in areas subject to natural hazards
        and disasters;
     9. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned community


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 329
        subarea plan encourages the protection of prime agricultural, forestry, and mining lands
        for production of food, fiber, and minerals;
     10. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned community
         subarea plan ensures that the land development is consistent with the physical
         characteristics of the land;
     11. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
         subarea plan adequately addresses urban public services;
     12. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned community
         subarea plan ensures that adequate transportation facilities and services are provided
         for the planned community subarea;
     13. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that the planned community
         subarea plan adequately addresses the needs of the regional transportation network;
     14. Growth in the proposed planned community subarea will not adversely impact existing
         regional conditions; and
     15. The comprehensive plan text amendment demonstrates that planned community
         subarea plan contains the comprehensive plan components required by subsection 8-
         12-7D of this Chapter.
     16. The implementation plan complies with the applicable comprehensive plan;
     17. The implementation plan demonstrates that urban public services will be provided to
         the planned community;
     18. The implementation plan demonstrates that the phasing of the planned community will
         maintain the integrity of the planned community at the end of each phase;
     19. The implementation plan financing plan demonstrates financial feasibility through
         planned community build out;
     20. The implementation plan demonstrates that the long-term operations and maintenance
         associated with urban public services will be adequately funded;
     21. The implementation plan adequately mitigates for any identified impacts to natural
         resources and wildlife;
     22. The implementation plan demonstrates that the planned community effectively
         implements the required standards as found in Section 8-12-5 of this Chapter; and
     23. The implementation plan provides for design themes consistent with the community
         design goal(s) of the planned community subarea comprehensive plan.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 330
                                         CHAPTER 13
                                 PLANNED COMMUNITIES
In addition to each planned community’s specific zoning ordinance listed in this Chapter, please
refer to each planned communities’ recorded development agreement for the vested date of the
applicable - general zoning ordinance.
Article A: Avimor Planned Community
SECTION:
8-13A-1:              GENERAL PROVISIONS
8-13A-2:              LAND USE DISTRICTS
8-13A-3:              ADMINISTRATION
8-13A-1: General Provisions
   A. Short Title. This Article, as may be amended from time to time, shall be known, cited, and
      referred to as the AVIMOR ZONING ORDINANCE.
   B. Purpose and Intent. This Article is adopted to implement the vision, goals and principles
      of the Avimor Planned Community and the Avimor Specific Plan; to provide a method of
      land use regulation, as authorized by the Ada County Comprehensive Plan and the Ada
      County Zoning Ordinance; and to set forth the development standards and administrative
      procedures for implementing the land use policies of the Avimor Specific Plan, in
      particular with respect to:
       1. The design of quality, mixed use development.
       2. Distinctive and effective regulations to guide development.
       3. Flexibility and creativity in design and development in response to market demand and
          site-specific conditions.
       4. Creative and innovative land planning that is sensitive to existing environmental
          conditions.
       5. The integration and balance of a variety of land uses.
       6. The development of essential public services.
       7. Phased and orderly development utilizing consistent criteria.
       8. Establishing uses and standards for each residential and nonresidential use.
       9. The development review and approval process.
   C. Applicability. This Article shall govern and control all development throughout the
      Avimor Planned Community as described in the Avimor Specific Plan, and as shown on
      the land use district map, and as detailed in the land use design and development standards
      matrix, and the land use table.
       1. The provisions of the Ada County Zoning Ordinance shall govern all standards or
          processes that are not specifically identified, set forth, or modified by this Article.
          Amendment of the Ada County Zoning Ordinance shall neither modify nor amend the
          specific provisions of this Article, or the land use district map, the land use design and
          development standards matrix, or the land use table adopted pursuant to this Article.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 331
     2. Any contradiction, inconsistency, or ambiguity between the requirements of this
        Article and any other provision of the Ada County Zoning Ordinance shall be governed
        and controlled by this Article.
     3. The provisions of this Article are severable, and if any provision, sentence, clause,
        section, or any part thereof, is held illegal, invalid, unconstitutional, or inapplicable, it
        shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections,
        or parts of this Article.
     4. To the extent that any specific land use is approved as a result of the adoption of the
        Avimor Specific Plan, including, without limitation, the placement and approval of any
        utility system or service, such uses shall require no further application or approval.
  D. Definitions. The definitions set forth in Section 8-10-2 are generally applicable in the
     interpretation and construction of this Article; provided, however, that definitions set forth
     below are unique to this Article and shall be used specifically in the interpretation and
     construction of this Article. In the event of any conflict between the terms defined in
     Section 8-10-2 of this Title and the terms defined below, the terms defined below shall
     control. Subject to the foregoing, any term used in this Article not specifically defined
     below shall have the same meaning ascribed to that term as per the definitions set forth in
     Section 8-10-2, and any term not defined herein or in Section 8-10-2 shall be given its plain
     and ordinary meaning.
     ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A fully functional living unit which may be rented for
     income, provide residence in barter for personal services, or accommodate a family
     member, and which may be a separate structure on the same lot, a portion of the primary
     dwelling, or located over a garage, separate or attached to the primary dwelling.
     ALLEY: A public or private way affording a secondary means of access to abutting
     property at the back or side of a property. An alley may also provide required frontage to
     a public right-of- way.
     ARTICLE: This Avimor Zoning Ordinance.
     AVIMOR DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE OR DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE:
     That certain Design Review Committee established by the developer to review and approve
     site plans, architecture and landscape designs within the Avimor Planned Community
     before such plans and designs are submitted to Ada County for development permits.
     AVIMOR PLANNED COMMUNITY: That area depicted in the Avimor Specific Plan and
     on the land use district map, as they may be amended from time to time.
     AVIMOR SPECIFIC PLAN: The Avimor Specific Plan consists of the goals, objectives,
     policies, maps, development standards, administration provisions and other components of
     the Avimor application for a planned community which has been adopted by the Board,
     and which shall serve as a guide for development. A copy of the Avimor Specific Plan, as
     it may be amended from time to time, shall be on file with the Ada County Development
     Services Department.
     COMMUNITY CENTER: That area, building or facility which is intended to include the
     recreational and community service uses that will form the social hub of the Avimor
     Planned Community, and which may include for lease office(s) and/or retail space(s).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 332
     COMMUNITY SERVICE DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land use
     design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use District Map,
     which designation identifies sites for utilities and public structures, services or facilities
     outside of the Village Center District, including, without limitation, schools, fire, police,
     EMS and restricted commercial uses that are compatible with open space or recreation,
     such as landscape nursery, bicycle or recreational sales, rental and repair, or such other
     uses that are determined by the Director to be in conformity with the Avimor goal,
     objectives and policies.
     DEVELOPMENT PERMITS: Those applications and permits required for approval by
     Ada County including, without limitation, master site plan approval, zoning certificate,
     grading permit, and building permit, as may be required pursuant to this Article or the Ada
     County Zoning Ordinance.
     DWELLING, LIVE/WORK: A building that offers the opportunity for the occupant to live
     and work in the same building with distinctly separate space for each activity.
     DWELLING, LOFT HOUSING: A dwelling unit located above a nonresidential use.
     FLOOR AREA RATIO: The ratio of total building floor area to the total land area of the
     parcel where the building is located.
     FOOD VEHICLE OR TRAILER CONCESSIONS: Unit is licensed as a mobile food
     establishment with the Health Authority. Unit from which food and beverages are sold.
     Includes permanent and semi- permanent vehicle or trailer and is a self-sufficient vehicle
     or trailer.
     FOOTHILLS OPEN SPACE DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land
     use design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use District Map,
     which designation identifies land retained as natural open space for the preservation of
     sensitive habitat, natural features and/or hillside areas free of development or structures
     other than wildlife habitat improvements, trails and trailhead parking, recreational
     improvements, agricultural uses, utilities, utility facilities, roadways, drainage facilities or
     other accessory uses or approved conditional uses.
     FOOTHILLS RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land
     use design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use District Map,
     which designation identifies clustered, low to medium density residential housing areas.
     LAND USE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS MATRIX: The table of
     design and development standards and regulations for structures and site improvements
     specific to the Avimor Planned Community, as detailed in Section 8-13A-2, Table 8-13A-
     1 of this Article.
     LAND USE DISTRICT: The specific districts within the Avimor Planned Community
     where designated land uses are regulated. See definitions of Community Service District,
     Foothills Residential District, Foothills Open Space District, Village Center District,
     Village Residential District, Village Open Space District.
     LAND USE DISTRICT MAP: The map depicting the boundary of the Avimor Planned
     Community and the land use districts within such boundary, as detailed in Section 8-13A-
     2, Figure 8-13A-1 of this Article.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 333
      MIXED USE: The integration of different uses, including, without limitation, workspace,
      such as office and retail, dwellings, shopping, schools, restaurants, entertainment, parks,
      and civic buildings, all within close proximity and often within the same buildings.
      MODEL HOME COMPLEX/SALES CENTER: One (1) or more dwellings or group of
      dwellings which is/are shown to prospective buyers, which may include parking, signage,
      fenced visitor "capture" area(s) and sales office(s).
      PHASE: A development area within the Avimor Planned Community designated as such
      on a subdivision plat.
      SELF-SUFFICIENT VEHICLE OR TRAILER: Unit is equipped for preparing perishable
      Potentially Hazardous Food/Temperature Controlled for Safety (PHF/TCS) foods,
      cooking, hot and cold storage, dry storage, utensil washing, hand washing etc., on the unit
      with self-contained potable water supply and wastewater storage. Pressurized hot and cold
      water is required in mobile unit.
      SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE: A final plat shall be deemed to be in substantial
      conformance to a preliminary plat provided that the final plat represents no increase in the
      number of lots as approved for the preliminary plat, provided that the density and lot
      dimensions meet the standards of the applicable land use district, and provided that
      roadway alignments conform to those depicted on the preliminary plat.
      VILLAGE CENTER DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land use
      design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use District Map,
      which identifies a mixed-use core of the community.
      VILLAGE OPEN SPACE DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land use
      design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use District Map,
      which identifies lands which shall remain open and free of development or structures other
      than wildlife habitat improvements, trails and trailhead parking, recreational
      improvements, utilities, roadways, drainage facilities or other uses as approved through the
      conditional use process.
      VILLAGE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: The land use designation described on the land
      use design and development standards matrix and depicted on the Land Use District Map
      which identifies a central single-family neighborhood of diverse housing types.
8-13A-2: Land Use Districts
   A. Land Use Districts. All areas within the Avimor Planned Community are divided into land
      use districts, and the use of each lot, parcel or tract of land is defined by the standards of
      its applicable land use district. The land use districts and the statement of purpose for each
      are as follows:
      1. Village Center District (VC). It is the purpose of the Village Center Land Use District
         to provide for civic, commercial, retail and office uses, and for higher density
         residential uses in a mixed-use village environment, located at the primary entrance
         and focal point of the community, in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives and
         policies.
      2. Village Residential District (VR). It is the purpose of the village residential land use
         district to provide for predominantly single-family residential uses, in flat land or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 334
               moderately sloped areas, at densities between three and one half (3.5) and eight (8)
               units per acre in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives and policies.
           3. Foothills Residential District (FR). It is the purpose of the foothills residential land
              use district to provide for larger lot, single-family residential uses in hillside and valley
              areas at densities ranging from one half (0.5) to two (2) units per acre in conformity
              with the Avimor goal, objectives, and policies.
           4. Community Service District (CS). It is the purpose of the community service land use
              district to provide for utilities and public structures, services or facilities outside of the
              village center district, including, without limitation, schools, fire, police, EMS, and
              restricted commercial uses that are compatible with open space or recreation, such as
              landscape nursery, bicycle or recreational sales, rental and repair, or such other uses
              that are determined by the Director to be in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives
              and policies.
           5. Foothills Open Space District (FOS). It is the purpose of the foothills open space land
              use district to provide for preservation of riparian corridors of natural watercourses,
              steep hillsides, and major ridges above the three thousand five-hundred-foot (3,500’)
              elevation, view corridors and wildlife habitat in conformity with the Avimor goal,
              objectives, and policies.
           6. Village Open Space District (VOS). It is the purpose of the village open space land
              use district to provide for natural and improved open spaces, including, without
              limitation, riparian corridors of natural watercourses, parks and play fields, and
              wetlands and drainage facilities in conformity with the Avimor goal, objectives, and
              policies.
   B. Land Use Design and Development Standards Matrix. All structures and site
      improvements within the various land use districts shall meet the design and development
      standards of Table 8-13A-1 of this Section unless otherwise specified.

TABLE 8-13A-1
AVIMOR PLANNED COMMUNITY LAND USE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS MATRIX

 Land Use        Design Principles        Land           Uses                    Density 1     Height2   Lot Size/
 District                                 Type/                                                          Coverage3
                                          Location
 Village         - Centrally located      Flat land      Retail, office and      3.5           40’       Size:
 Center          civic, commercial,       areas          service with            dwelling                1,500 sq.
                 retail, office                          residential14 uses at   units per               ft.
                 - Mixed use6             See land       a minimum of 25%        acre                    minimum
                 - Most intense housing   use district   of gross building       minimum
                 - Neighborhood scale     map, figure    square footage for      where                   Coverage:
                 commercial               8-13A-1 of     the entire village      residential             No
                 - Pedestrian             this Section   center district         uses                    maximum
                 orientation                                                     proposed
                 - Buildings relate to
                 street                                  See land use table,     Floor area
                 - Shared use parking                    table 8-13A-2 of        ratio shall
                 encouraged for                          this Section            be a
                 commercial/community                                            minimum


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 335
              uses                                                            of 0.3

                                                                              There
                                                                              shall be
                                                                              no
                                                                              maximum
                                                                              floor area
                                                                              ratio

                                                                              No more
                                                                              than 1
                                                                              accessory
                                                                              dwelling
                                                                              unit per
                                                                              residential
                                                                              lot
Village       Diverse housing types      Flat land or   See land use table,   3.5           35’   Size:
Residential   and income levels          gently         table 8-13A-2 of      dwelling            Attached:
                                         sloped         this Section          units per           1,500 sq.
              Pedestrian orientation     areas 0–8%                           acre                ft.
                                         slope                                minimum;            minimum
                                         typical7                             8                   Detached:
                                                                              dwelling            3,500 sq.
                                         See land                             units per           ft.
                                         use district                         acre                minimum
                                         map, figure                          maximum
                                         8-13A-1 of                                               Coverage
                                         this Section                         No more             maximum:
                                                                              than 1              Attached:
                                                                              accessory           80%
                                                                              dwelling            Detached:
                                                                              unit per            60%
                                                                              residential
                                                                              lot
Foothills     Residential transition     Moderate       See land use table,   0.5           35’   Size:
Residential   from village uses to       hillside       table 8-13A-2 of      dwelling            9,000 sq.
              foothills open space       areas – 5–     this Section          units per           ft.
                                         25% slopes                           acre                minimum
              Grade adaptive housing     typical                              minimum;
              encouraged                                                      2                   Coverage
                                         See land                             dwelling            maximum:
                                         use district                         units per           45%
                                         map                                  acre
                                                                              maximum

                                                                              No more
                                                                              than 1
                                                                              accessory
                                                                              dwelling
                                                                              unit per
                                                                              residential
                                                                              lot
Community     Structures or facilities   Generally      See land use table,   n/a           40’   Size:
Service       providing community        throughout     table 8-13A-2 of                          1,500 sq.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 336
            services outside of the      the planned    this Section                                  ft.
            village center district      community                                                    minimum
                                         where
                                         community                                                    Coverage:
                                         services                                                     No
                                         uses are                                                     maximum
                                         needed
                                         See land
                                         use district
                                         map, figure
                                         8-13A-1 of
                                         this Section
Foothills   Preservation of natural      Steep          See land use table,    n/a          n/a       n/a
Open        features, wildlife habitat   hillside       table 8-13A-2 of
Space       and view corridors           areas with     this Section
                                         slopes
                                         exceeding
                                         25%
                                         See land
                                         use district
                                         map, Figure
                                         8-13A-1 of
                                         this Section
Village     Preservation of              Varied:        See land use table,    n/a          n/a       n/a
Open        sensitive areas, scenic      riparian       table 8-13A-2 of
Space       corridors and wildlife       corridors,     this Section
            habitat, and cultural        moderate
            sites but with public or     slopes,
            private recreational         unique
            open spaces                  natural
                                         features
                                         See land
                                         use district
                                         map, Figure
                                         8-13A-1 of
                                         this Section


Land Use    Frontage 4    Minimum             Streets/Parking     Design Standards          Landscaping/Open
District                  Setbacks5                                                         Space12
Village     20’           No minimum          Public streets:     The development           Open space: n/a
Center                    setbacks            ACHD                standards and design
            Corner lot:                       approved            guidelines set forth in   Landscape:
            25’                               standards           subsection B-13 of        - Residential uses
                                                                  the Avimor specific       subject to standards
            Flag lot:                         Parking             plan are hereby           applied
            20’8                              requirement per     incorporated by this      by Avimor design
                                              8-3-10 of this      reference and shall       review committee
                                              Title               constitute the design     - Community and
                                                                  and development           commercial/industrial
                                              On street           standards for the         uses subject to
                                              parallel or         following design          requirements of 8-3-7
                                              diagonal            elements: green           of this Title
                                              parking with        design standards,
                                              parking             water conservation,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 337
                                               reduction by      energy conservation,
                                               approval of a     site design, grading
                                               parking budget    and drainage,
                                               for               architecture,
                                               nonresidential    landscape, fences and
                                               uses13            walls, lighting,
                                                                 signage, and wildlife.
                                                                 The relevant
                                                                 development
                                                                 standards and design
                                                                 guidelines shall be
                                                                 applied to uses within
                                                                 this land use district as
                                                                 appropriate.
Village       30’           Front: 10’ for     Public streets:   The development             Open space: n/a
Residential                 all structures     ACHD              standards and design
              Corner lot:   except:            approved          guidelines set forth in     Landscape:
              35’           - 8’ for alley     standards         subsection B-13 of          - Residential uses
                            loaded                               the Avimor specific         subject to standards
              Flag lot:     residences         Parking           plan are hereby             applied
              20’8          - 20’ for all      requirement per   incorporated by this        by Avimor design
                            residential        8-3-10 of this    reference and shall         review committee
                            garages9           Title             constitute the design       - Community and
                            Side:                                and development             commercial/industrial
                            Attached 0’                          standards for the           uses subject to
                            Detached 5’                          following design            requirements of 8-3-7
                            Zero lot line:                       elements: green             of this Title
                            10’ between                          design standards,
                            living area on                       water conservation,
                            adjacent lots11                      energy conservation,
                                                                 site design, grading
                            Street side: 10’                     and drainage,
                                                                 architecture,
                            Rear: 15’                            landscape, fences and
                            except: 5’ for                       walls, lighting,
                            alley loaded                         signage, and wildlife.
                            residential                          The relevant
                            garages10                            development
                                                                 standards and design
                                                                 guidelines shall be
                                                                 applied to uses within
                                                                 this land use district as
                                                                 appropriate.
Foothills     40’8          Front:             Public streets:   The development             Open space: n/a
Residential                 - Living 15’       ACHD              standards and design
              Corner lot:   - Garage 20’9      approved          guidelines set forth in     Landscape:
              45’           Side:              standards         subsection B-13 of          - Residential uses
                            - Minimum 5’                         the Avimor specific         subject to standards
              Flag lot:     - Cumulative       Parking           plan are hereby             applied
              20’8          15’ minimum        requirement per   incorporated by this        by Avimor design
                            Street side: 10’   8-3-10 of this    reference and shall         review committee
                            Rear:              Title             constitute the design       - Community and
                            - Living 20’                         and development             commercial/industrial
                            - Garage 5’10                        standards for the           uses subject to
                                                                 following design            requirements of 8-3-7


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 338
                                                         elements: green             of this Title
                                                         design standards,
                                                         water conservation,
                                                         energy conservation,
                                                         site design, grading
                                                         and drainage,
                                                         architecture,
                                                         landscape, fences and
                                                         walls, lighting,
                                                         signage, and wildlife.
                                                         The relevant
                                                         development
                                                         standards and design
                                                         guidelines shall be
                                                         applied to uses within
                                                         this land use district as
                                                         appropriate.
Community   20’    Front: 10’          Parking           The development             Open space: n/a
Service            Side: 10’           requirement per   standards and design
                   Rear: 10’           8-3-10 of this    guidelines set forth in     Landscape: All uses
                   - except for any    Title             subsection B-13 of          subject to
                   parcel located                        the Avimor specific         requirements of 8-3-7
                   adjacent to a                         plan are hereby             of this Title
                   residential                           incorporated by this
                   district where                        reference and shall
                   setback to any                        constitute the design
                   common                                and development
                   boundary with                         standards for the
                   a residential lot                     following design
                   shall be 30’                          elements: green
                                                         design standards,
                                                         water conservation,
                                                         energy conservation,
                                                         site design, grading
                                                         and drainage,
                                                         architecture,
                                                         landscape, fences and
                                                         walls, lighting,
                                                         signage, and wildlife.
                                                         The relevant
                                                         development
                                                         standards and design
                                                         guidelines shall be
                                                         applied to uses within
                                                         this land use district as
                                                         appropriate.
Foothills   n/a    For structures      Public streets:   The development             Open space
Open               and                 ACHD              standards and design        designated for all
Space              improvements        approved          guidelines set forth in     areas unoccupied by
                   permitted           standards         subsection B-13 of          building lots,
                   within the                            the Avimor specific         structures, streets, or
                   district, there     Parking           plan are hereby             parking lots, except
                   shall be no         requirement per   incorporated by this        as otherwise
                   minimum             8-3-10 of this    reference and shall         specified in 8-3-9 of
                   setback except      Title except as   constitute the design       this Title


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 339
                           for any parcel      set forth in note   and development
                           located             14                  standards for the           Landscape: All uses
                           adjacent to a                           following design            subject to
                           residential                             elements: green             requirements of 8-3-7
                           district where                          design standards,           of this Title
                           setback to any                          water conservation,
                           common                                  energy conservation,
                           boundary with                           site design, grading
                           a residential lot                       and drainage,
                           shall be 30’                            architecture,
                                                                   landscape, fences and
                                                                   walls, lighting,
                                                                   signage, and wildlife.
                                                                   The relevant
                                                                   development
                                                                   standards and design
                                                                   guidelines shall be
                                                                   applied to uses within
                                                                   this land use district as
                                                                   appropriate.
Village       n/a          For structures      Public streets:     The development             Open space
Open                       and                 ACHD                standards and design        designated for all
Space                      improvements        approved            guidelines set forth in     areas unoccupied by
                           permitted           standards           subsection B-13 of          building lots,
                           within the                              the Avimor specific         structures, streets, or
                           district, there     Parking             plan are hereby             parking lots, except
                           shall be no         requirement per     incorporated by this        as otherwise
                           minimum             8-3-10 of this      reference and shall         specified in 8-3-9 of
                           setback except      Title except as     constitute the design       this Title
                           for any parcel      set forth in note   and development
                           located             14                  standards for the           Landscape: All uses
                           adjacent to a                           following design            subject to
                           residential                             elements: green             requirements of 8-3-7
                           district where                          design standards,           of this Title
                           setback to any                          water conservation,
                           common                                  energy conservation,
                           boundary with                           site design, grading
                           a residential lot                       and drainage,
                           shall be 30’                            architecture,
                                                                   landscape, fences and
                                                                   walls, lighting,
                                                                   signage, and wildlife.
                                                                   The relevant
                                                                   development
                                                                   standards and design
                                                                   guidelines shall be
                                                                   applied to uses within
                                                                   this land use district as
                                                                   appropriate.


 Notes:
       1.   The height of any structure shall be measured at:
             The top of parapet for flat roof structures.
             The midpoint average between the eaves and roof peak for pitched roof structures.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 340
              From finished grade at any point under the structure for grade adapted, or stepped foundations, or
               engineered building pad.
           Height exception for: cell towers, chimneys, church spires or belfries, radio tower, water tanks,
               elevator bulkheads, windmills.
     2.   The term “coverage” is defined as the footprint of a structure at the foundation wall, including covered
          areas: porches, entries and patios. Driveways and walks are excluded.
     3.   Frontage requirements may be met by frontage on an alley.
     4.   Encroachments:
           Eaves, fireplaces, or other architectural features may project up to 2 feet into a side yard setback.
           Open porches may project up to 5 feet into a front yard setback.
           Open structures (porches, patios, balconies, and similar architectural features) may project up to 10
               feet into a rear yard setback.
     5.   Mixed use: The integration of different uses, including, without limitation, work space such as office and
          retail, dwellings, shopping, schools, restaurants, entertainment, parks, and civic buildings, all within
          close proximity and often within the same buildings.
     6.  Slope is calculated as the average grade across a parcel of land.
     7.  Frontage for flag lots shall be 20 feet and shall apply in all land use districts notwithstanding the specified
         frontage.
     8. Front setbacks shall be measured from back of sidewalk or property line, whichever is closer. The 20-
         foot garage setback is measured from face of the garage door to back of sidewalk. The setback for a side
         entry garage may be reduced to the same as the living area setback, except when access is from a side
         street.
     9. The setback for an accessory dwelling unit over a garage shall be the same as for the garage itself.
     10. Zero lot line development in the village residential land use district shall only be permitted on lots platted
         for such purpose which plat designates the permissible building envelope for each zero lot line lot.
     11. Open space: Land or water left in an undisturbed natural condition and unoccupied by building lots,
         structures, streets, or parking lots, except as otherwise specified in 8-3-9 of this Title.
     12. The amount of land dedicated to parking lots may be reduced by approval of a parking budget using
         shared parking, differential time use, 1 stop multiple use, and on street parking. The Director shall have
         the authority to approve such a parking budget with different parking requirements than are set forth in
         the ordinances, after determining that adequate parking is provided for the proposed uses. The uses upon
         which the parking budget is approved shall not be changed without the Director's approval. Diagonal on
         street parking may be approved by ACHD consistent with pedestrian safety.
     13. Village center land use district may include the following residential uses: duplexes, single-family
         attached, live/work units, lofts, multi-family, and townhouses.
     14. The parking requirements set forth in Section 8-3-10F, table 8-3-10B of this Title for public recreation
         facility or open space as set forth therein, are hereby modified so that no parking shall be required for
         any use except for those open space uses specified in subsection 8-3-9C.3 of this Title.

  C. Land Use District Map. The land use districts are established by and depicted on the Land
     Use District Map as set forth in Figure 8-13A-1 of this Section. Land use district boundaries
     are general and shall be refined during the detailed site planning process. The exact location
     of the land use district boundaries shall be established during subdivision platting and shall
     be described by metes and bounds and identified on the preliminary and final subdivision
     plats.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 341
 Figure 8-13A-1 Land Use District Map




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 342
  D. Land Use Regulations. Land use eligibility for each land use district is set forth in table
     8-13A-2 Avimor Planned Community Land Use Table of this Section.
       1. The land use table designates uses as: principal permitted uses (P), conditional uses
          (C), or prohibited uses (-).
       2. Principal permitted uses shall be allowed anywhere within a land use district upon the
          platting of the property and designation of the land use district for the property where
          the use is proposed; the issuance of a zoning certificate; and the issuance of a building
          permit.
       3. Any conditional use not approved as part of the Avimor Specific Plan shall be allowed
          only upon the issuance of a conditional use permit.
       4. When a proposed use is not identified by this Article as a principal permitted use, a
          conditional use or an accessory use, but such use is not specifically designated as a
          prohibited use, such shall be evaluated and determined by the Director pursuant to the
          Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
       5. Agricultural uses, including the grazing of livestock within the Foothills Open Space
          District, shall not materially interfere with the district's open space function or any other
          use permitted therein under this Article, as evaluated and determined by the Director
          in Section 8-13A-3 of this Article.


 TABLE 8-13A-2
 AVIMOR PLANNED COMMUNITY LAND USE TABLE

   Use            Land Use Districts
   Category
                  Village                  Village       Foothills Residential   Community   Foothills   Village
                  Center                   Residential                           Service     OS          OS



   Residential:

                  Accessory                P             P              P        -           -           -
                  dwelling unit

                  Bed and breakfast        P             C              C        -           -           -
                  establishment

                  Duplex/dwelling,         P             P              P        -           -           -
                  single-family attached

                  Dwelling,                P             P              C        -           -           -
                  live/work

                  Dwelling, loft           P             -              -        -           -           -




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 343
            Dwelling, multi-            P   P   -   -   -   -
            family

            Dwelling, single-           -   P   P   -   -   -
            family detached

            Dwelling,                   P   P   -   -   -   -
            townhouse

            Group daycare               P   P   P   -   -   -
            facility

            Home                        P   P   P   -   -   -
            occupations

            Model home                  -   P   P   -   -   -
            complex/sales center

   Community:

            Adult respite care center   P   C   -   -   -   -


            Auditoriums,                P   -   -   -   -   -
            community theaters,
            museum, art gallery,
            library, post
            office/studio

            Campground,                 P   -   -   P   -   -
            recreational vehicle
            park

            Church or place of          P   P   -   -   -   -
            religious worship

            Community                   P   P   -   P   -   P
            garden

            Daycare center              P   C   -   -   -   -


            Greenhouse;                 P   C   -   P   -   -
            nursery, retail;
            nursery, wholesale

            Nursing facility,           P   -   -   -   -   -
            skilled

            Public safety; fire,        P   C   -   P   -   -
            police, EMS




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 344
              Recreational area, play   P    P   P   P   P   P
              field and facilities,
              including school fields

              Recreational buildings,   P    P   P   C   -   -
              public or private,
              indoor

              Residential care          P    C   -   -   -   -
              facility

              School, public or private: P   C   C   P   -   -
              kindergarten, elementary

              School, public or         C    C   -   C   -   -
              private: middle,
              junior high, and
              senior high


   Commercial/industrial:

              Animal clinic,            P    -   -   -   -   -
              animal hospital or
              veterinary office

              Automotive service,       P    -   -   -   -   -
              gas station, car wash,

              Convenience store with
              gas pumps

              Bank/financial            P    -   -   -   -   -
              institution, including
              drive-up window
              service


              Bar/brewpub               P    -   -   -   -   -


              Dwelling,                 P    P   C   -   -   -
              live/work

              Equestrian facility       -    -   C   C   C   C


              Food vehicle/trailer      P    -   -   -   -   P
              concessions

              Grocery store/pharmacy    P    -   -   -   -   -




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 345
          Health club, spa         P   -   -   -   -   -


          Hotel or motel           P   -   -   -   -   -


          Laundromat/dry cleaning P    -   -   -   -   -


          Liquor store/wine shop   P   -   -   -   -   -


          Movie theaters/          P   -   -   -   -   -
          entertainment
          complex

          Office: professional,    P   -   -   -   -   -
          business, medical,
          dental

          Outdoor                  P   P   P   P   P   P
          markets/community
          events/sales events

          Recycling center         C   -   -   -   -   -


          Restaurant/bakery/coffee P   -   -   -   -   -
          shop, including drive-
          through

          Retail store             P   -   -   -   -   -


          Social hall, club or     P   -   -   -   -   -
          lodge

          Storage facility,        P   -   -   -   -   -
          self-service

          Temporary                P   P   P   P   P   P
          construction
          office/temporary
          construction yard


          Transit facility/park    P   -   -   P   -   -
          and ride lot




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 346
              Utilities: substation, gas   C     C           C           P            C         -
              regulator station,
              telecommunication
              tower or facility


              Utilities: well field,       C     C           C           P            C         -
              water and wastewater
              treatment facilities



8-13A-3: Administration. This Section defines the review and approval process for the
development of the Avimor Planned Community in accordance with the provisions of the Avimor
Specific Plan and the Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
It shall be the duty of the Director to administer the provisions of this Article for the development
of the Avimor Planned Community. The Director shall interpret the provisions of this Article and
make decisions on land use issues not specifically addressed by the Avimor Specific Plan or this
Article.
The Director, Commission, and/or Board, as the case may be, shall base their approvals or
disapprovals upon compliance with the provisions of this Article and the goals and policies and
purpose and intent of the Avimor Specific Plan.
   A. Avimor Specific Plan Compliance. All development within the Avimor Planned
      Community shall conform to the Avimor Specific Plan as it may be amended from time to
      time.
       1. Each phase of the development that is compliant with the Avimor Specific Plan shall
          be subject only to the applicable preliminary and final plat subdivision regulations of
          this Article.
       2. Modifications of the Avimor Specific Plan may be submitted, reviewed and approved
          concurrently with a subdivision preliminary plat.
   B. Overlay Districts. Development proposals within the Avimor Planned Community shall
      be subject to and shall comply with the requirements of applicable overlay districts.
   C. Land Divisions. The subdivision of land, or the adjustment of parcels within the Avimor
      Planned Community, shall conform to the Avimor Specific Plan and the applicable
      procedures and specifications of the Ada County Zoning Ordinance, except that the
      provisions of subsection 8-6-25C.2 of this Title shall not apply to subdivision platting in
      Avimor; provided, however, that no neighborhood meetings shall be required for a
      subdivision application unless the preliminary plat proposes a modification of the Avimor
      Specific Plan as may be amended from time to time.
   D. Development Permits. Development applications shall be reviewed, and development
      permits shall be issued pursuant to the applicable procedures and specifications of this
      Code subject to the modifications set forth herein. Development permits shall not be issued
      prior to the approval of a subdivision application for a phase or portion of a phase. No
      development permits shall be issued for any use until such time as the applicant has
      provided to the County a letter of approval issued by the Avimor Design Review


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 347
     Committee evidencing the determination of the Avimor Design Review Committee that
     the use and application comply with the design standards for the Avimor Planned
     Community. The development permits shall be reviewed and issued as follows:
     1. Master Site Plan. Master site plan approval shall be required pursuant to the
        procedures of 8-6-19 of this Title regarding master site plan approval for all uses except
        as modified herein.
        a. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections 8-6-19B.2 and B.3 of this Title, all
           land uses within the Avimor Planned Community shall obtain master site plan
           approval except for those designated as residential uses on the land use table,
           community events, and food vehicle/trailer concessions which have a separate
           approval process outlined in subsections D5 and D6, respectively of this Section.
        b. The Director shall apply those standards set forth in subsection 8-6-19Gof this Title,
           to the extent that those standards do not conflict with the provisions of the land use
           design and development standards matrix. For purposes of master site plan
           approval, compliance with this Article and the Avimor Specific Plan shall
           constitute compliance with subsections 8-6-19G, of this Title and an applicant for
           master site plan approval shall not be required to comply with the standards set
           forth in those subsections.
        c. In the event of any conflict between the standards set forth in subsection 8-6-19G
           of this Title and the land use design and development standards matrix, the land use
           design and development standards matrix shall control.
        d. In order to approve an application for master site plan approval, the Director shall
           make the following findings:
            1. The master site plan complies with this Article, the Ada County Zoning
               Ordinance and is in accordance with the Avimor Specific Plan;
            2. The proposed landscaping meets the requirements of Section 8-3-7 of this Title;
            3. The proposed parking and loading spaces meet the requirements of Section 8-
               3-10 of this Title;
            4. The proposed lighting plan meets the requirements of Section 8-3-8 of this
               Title; and
            5. The proposed master site plan complies with the land use design and
               development standards matrix.
     2. Zoning Certificate. A zoning certificate shall be required for all uses and shall be
        issued in conformance with the requirements of the Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
     3. Building Permit. Building permits shall be issued in accordance with Title 7, Chapter
        2 of this Code, or the same may be amended or retitled from time to time, for all uses
        as applicable. When a single-family dwelling has a garage or private living quarters
        that is semi-detached only, one (1) building permit is required for both the single-family
        dwelling and the semi-detached garage or private living quarters.
     4. Grading Permits. Grading permits shall be issued in accordance with Title 7, Chapter
        2 of this Code, or as the same may be amended or retitled from time to time and/or the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 348
         Ada County Zoning Ordinance as applicable.
      5. Community Events. For events that: a) are open to the public and/or persons who are
         not residents of Avimor and b) have an expected attendance of three hundred (300)
         people or more, Avimor must adhere to the following procedure:
         a. Notify Avimor residents of the upcoming event by posting a notice in the
            community center and sending an electronic notice via e-mail or website portal
            indicating the date, time, and nature of the event. The notice will be given at least
            ten (10) days before the event, but not more than twenty-five (25) days before the
            event.
         b. At least ten (10) days prior to the event, Avimor will submit to Ada County
            Development Services letters from the Eagle Fire Protection District, Ada County
            Sheriff's Office, Central District Health Department, and the Ada County Highway
            District setting forth their respective approval of the event.
         c. Apply for and obtain a zoning certificate after submittal of the approval letters
            specified in subsection D5b of this Section.
         d. For all smaller events, even those open to the public or nonresidents, no approval
            is required.
      6. Food Vehicle/Trailer Concessions. Except as outlined in subsection D6d of this
         Section, prior to any operation, a zoning certificate shall be obtained from Ada County
         Development Services. When applying for the zoning certificate, the following shall
         be submitted to the Ada County Development Services' Office:
         a. Complete Ada County Development Services application form;
         b. Copy of Central District Health Department current mobile food establishment
            license; and
         c. Scaled site plan showing all property lines, location of food vehicle/trailer
            concessions, suitable off-street parking, and ADA accessibility.
         d. For all food vehicle/trailer concessions that are part of an Avimor community event,
            a zoning certificate from Ada County Development Services is not required;
            however, approval from the Central District Health Department is still required.

Article B: Cartwright Ranch Planned Community
SECTION:
8-13B-1:            SHORT TITLE
8-13B-2:            PURPOSE AND INTENT
8-13B-3:            APPLICABILITY
8-13B-4:            DEFINITIONS
8-13B-5:            LAND USE DISTRICTS
8-13B-6:            ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
8-13B-7:            SETBACKS; STRUCTURAL AND SPATIAL REQUIREMENTS
8-13B-8:            LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS
8-13B-9:            OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 349
8-13B-10:             STREET FRONTAGE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS
8-13B-11:             SIGN REQUIREMENTS
8-13B-12:             ON AND OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
8-13B-13:             STANDARDS FOR ENERGY AND WATER CONSERVATION
8-13B-14:             GRADING REQUIREMENT
8-13B-15:             DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURES AND SITE
                      IMPROVEMENTS
8-13B-16:             AMENDMENTS
8-13B-1: Short Title
This Article shall be known, cited, and referred to as the CARTWRIGHT RANCH PLANNED
COMMUNITY ZONING ORDINANCE.
8-13B-2: Purpose and Intent
Generally, this Article is enacted with the purpose and intent of promoting, on behalf of the
Cartwright Ranch planned community, public health, safety, comfort and general welfare; to
conserve and control the population density and to facilitate adequate and economical provisions
for public improvements, all in accordance with the Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan for the
desirable future physical development of Cartwright Ranch, all as authorized by the Ada County
Comprehensive Plan, the Ada County Zoning Ordinance, the state legislature, and the constitution
of the state.
Specifically, the purpose and intent of this Article is to set forth the development standards and
administrative procedures for implementing the land use policies of the Cartwright Ranch
Comprehensive Plan. This Article shall be consistent with the adopted Cartwright Ranch
Comprehensive Plan. Furthermore, it is the purpose of this Article to:
   A. Provide for the design of quality, mixed use development within the Cartwright Ranch
      planned community;
   B. Provide distinctive, efficient and effective regulations to guide development in Cartwright
      Ranch;
   C. Encourage flexibility and creativity in Cartwright Ranch's design and development in order
      to respond to market demand and site-specific conditions while enhancing the economic
      viability and quality of Cartwright Ranch;
   D. Provide for the integration and balance of a variety of uses in Cartwright Ranch;
   E. Provide flexibility for reconfiguration of residential and nonresidential uses and/or
      population density as long as these reconfigurations do not conflict with the overall intent
      of the Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan and this Article; and
   F. Identify and define standards for uses that may occur in each of the land use categories.
8-13B-3: Applicability
   A. Development And Administration. This Article governs the development and
      administration of Cartwright Ranch, as shown on the Cartwright Ranch land use map found
      in the Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan. Where this Article specifically references
      other Sections of this code, such other Sections of this code shall apply and govern. This


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 350
       Article shall not apply to any land not incorporated within the Cartwright Ranch boundary.
       The approved Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan, as it may be amended, is now a part
       of the Ada County Comprehensive Plan.
   B. Flexibility. The development standards and design guidelines contained in the Cartwright
      Ranch development plan and Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan are intended to depict
      the general nature and relative intensity of residential and nonresidential development in
      Cartwright Ranch, while allowing sufficient flexibility at the time of platting so that the
      overall goals and policies and purpose and intent of Cartwright Ranch can be achieved.
      The configuration and densities of development parcels and phases may be altered from
      those shown on Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan to accommodate market, financing,
      site, engineering, development and other conditions and revisions to the project's
      implementation strategy providing that the reconfiguration is in accordance with the
      Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan and this Article.
   C. Conflict Of Laws. If conflict arises between this Article and this code, the provisions of
      this code shall apply. Notwithstanding, where this Article states definitions, standards, or
      other provisions specific to Cartwright Ranch, those provisions in this Article shall apply.
8-13B-4: Definitions
The following definitions are specific to Cartwright Ranch and shall be used in the interpretation
and construction of this Cartwright Ranch Zoning Ordinance in lieu of definitions in other Sections
of this code. Any term used in this Article not defined herein, shall have the meaning set forth in
8-10-2 of this Title. Any term not defined herein or in 8-10-2, shall have its plain and ordinary
meaning.
AGRICULTURAL OPERATION: The growing of cultivated crops, fruit trees, berry bushes,
grazing, pasturage, raising of domestic livestock, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and the
necessary accessory uses for packing, treating or storing of produce. The operation of any
accessory uses to agricultural purposes shall not include a commercial packing facility, feedlot or
stockyard, the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals, a slaughterhouse,
the operation of a fertilizer works, nor plants for the reduction of animal matter.
AGRICULTURAL OUTBUILDING: Any building or structure used for storage or shelter of
farming materials, equipment, supplies, products or animals.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive
Plan consists of the vision statement for Cartwright Ranch, a list of coordinated goals, objectives
and policies for the development, a conceptual land use map, and illustrations depicting proposed
street, trail and path cross sections. The Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan is a part of the Ada
County Comprehensive Plan.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The Cartwright Ranch development plan
generally includes: a) a natural features map and analysis; b) a narrative describing the proposed
land uses and design of the project; c) a map showing existing land uses within one (1) mile of the
project site; d) a narrative assessment of development and population trends in Ada County; e) a
transportation and mobility plan; f) a community services and utilities plan; g) an open space, parks
and trails plan; h) a wildlife mitigation plan; i) narrative and examples of proposed central design
concepts; j) a phasing plan; k) a letter from the Boise School District indicating school capacities
and facility needs; and l) a stormwater management plan and narrative. The Cartwright Ranch


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 351
development plan is attached as an exhibit to the Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH LAND USE MAP: The conceptual land use map included as figure B3
in the Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
CARTWRIGHT RANCH OR CARTWRIGHT RANCH PLANNED COMMUNITY: The
property depicted on the Cartwright Ranch zoning map, as amended from time to time.
 CARTWRIGHT RANCH PROPERTY OWNERS' ASSOCIATION: The Idaho nonprofit or
profit corporation whose members or stockholders consist exclusively of property owners within
Cartwright Ranch and whose purpose is to provide for the administration and governance of the
affairs of Cartwright Ranch.
CLINIC: A building, other than a hospital, used by one or more licensed physicians, dentists or
licensed healthcare professionals for the purpose of receiving and treating patients.
COMMERCIAL USE: The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling or
disposition of any Article, substance or commodity for livelihood or profit, or the ownership or
management of office buildings, offices, civic, recreational or amusement enterprises or the
maintenance and use of offices by professions and trades rendering services including all
advertising, events and other activities associated with such commercial use.
CONVALESCENT HOME: A home, place or institution licensed by the Idaho state department
of health and welfare as a nursing home or assisted care facility that operates or maintains facilities
providing convalescence or chronic care or both for a period in excess of twenty-four (24)
consecutive hours for three (3) or more patients not related by blood or marriage to the operator,
said patients who by reason of illness or infirmity are unable to properly care for themselves.
DESIGN GUIDELINES: The design guidelines are established pursuant to the recorded
conditions, covenants and restrictions for Cartwright Ranch, as they are amended from time to
time. The design guidelines address the following, including, but not limited to, building plans,
site development and grading plans, landscaping plans, elevations, and parking recommendations
prior to submission to the County. The design review committee enforces the design guidelines.
DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE: The design review committee for Cartwright Ranch shall be
formed and shall operate according to the requirements established in the recorded covenants,
conditions and restrictions for Cartwright Ranch as they may be amended from time to time. The
design review committee shall be responsible for reviewing, including, but not limited to, building
plans, site development and grading plans, landscaping plans, elevations, and parking
recommendations prior to submission of a building permit application to Ada County.
FAMILY DAYCARE HOME: A home, place or facility providing daycare for six (6) or fewer
children.
HEALTH CLUB FACILITY: Any facility providing exercise services to its customers.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the principal street on which it fronts.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line. Where the lot is
irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line at a point where
the side lot lines are not less than ten feet (10') apart.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 352
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot line separating a lot
from a street is also called a side street or flanking street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot
from another lot or lots is also called an interior side lot line.
LOT LINES: The property lines bounding the lot.
LOT WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth, provided however,
that the minimum lot width required for each lot type shall be measured at a distance from the
front line equal to the required least depth of the front yard, except in the case of a flag lot, where
the flag portion of the lot is not included in the width calculation and width is measured at a
distance from the end of the flag equal to the required depth of the front yard.
MODEL HOME: A single-family dwelling or a unit within a duplex or multi-family dwelling
which is shown to prospective buyers of lots or dwellings for the purpose of promoting the retail
sale of lots or dwellings within Cartwright Ranch.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed for or used by three (3)
or more families or housekeeping units.
PARK AND RIDE FACILITY: Facility designed to allow Cartwright Ranch residents to park their
vehicles in order to car pool or ride in a van or bus to various locations throughout the Treasure
Valley, usually to work.
PARKING AREA OR LOT: An open area, other than a street or public way, to be used for the
storage of operable passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles, of occupants or users of the
use for which the parking area is developed and is necessary and accessory.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A structure designed and used for vehicular parking and located near
the building it serves.
PUBLIC STRUCTURE: Any structure designed for the benefit and use of the public.
RETAIL STORE: A store that sells commodities in small quantities to consumers, such as a
general store, hardware store, bookstore, etc.
ROOMER OR BOARDER: Person paying remuneration for eating and sleeping within a
residence.
SERVICE STATION: A filling station or business enterprise using the premises primarily to sell
and supply motor fuel and lubricating oils and grease to on premises trade, including the sale of
tires, batteries, automotive accessories, together with other related services, including minor motor
vehicle repair. May also include convenience retail use, not to include a drive-in establishment.
SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open, either by the front, side and rear yard
requirements of this Article, or by the delineation on a recorded plat map, or recorded covenants.
STORAGE STRUCTURE: Any facility or structure used for the storage or parking (long term or
short term) of, without limitation, vehicles, agricultural and recreational vehicles, boats and other
watercraft, snowmobiles, equipment, and machinery.
TEMPORARY SALES OFFICE: That particular sales office(s), wherever located, used primarily
for the wholesale or retail sales of property or lots located within Cartwright Ranch.
TOWN CENTER: That portion of Cartwright Ranch that is intended to include the commercial,
recreational and community service uses that will form the social hub of the community.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 353
UTILITY: Any person, entity or municipal department, duly authorized to furnish to the public or
Cartwright Ranch residents under public regulation or otherwise, sewer, electricity, gas, steam,
telephone, transportation, water, cable television or other services.
8-13B-5: Land Use Districts
The purpose of this Section is to implement the Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan. The
Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan depicts the general nature and relative intensity of
residential and nonresidential development and uses are subject to the appropriate flexibility and
other standards discussed elsewhere in this Article.
   A. Land Use Districts
       1. PC District. Cartwright Ranch shall consist of a single base land use district, which
          shall be called the Cartwright Ranch PC district. The purpose of this district is to
          provide regulations and standards for development of residential and commercial uses
          in a variety of typologies including, but not limited to, single-family detached
          dwellings, zero lot line developments of single-family detached, single-family attached
          dwellings, duplexes and multiple-family dwellings including, but not limited to,
          townhouses and condominiums, and commercial and office uses, where a central
          wastewater collection and treatment system and community water system are provided.
       2. Commercial Overlay District. Cartwright Ranch includes a commercial overlay
          district, as depicted on the Cartwright Ranch land use map, which shall be called the
          Cartwright Ranch commercial overlay district. Within the Cartwright Ranch
          commercial overlay district, the total lots must accommodate up to twenty thousand
          (20,000) square feet of space for commercial uses until there are a total of twenty
          thousand (20,000) square feet of commercial uses within Cartwright Ranch, unless
          permitted otherwise by the Board of County Commissioners. Notwithstanding the
          above restriction, residential units are permitted above the ground floor of commercial
          uses within the Cartwright Ranch commercial overlay district.
   B. Lot Types
       1. View Lots. View lots generally occur on the site's moderately sloped hillsides located
          to the south and west of the Town Center. View lots vary substantially in size and
          configuration to respond to existing topography and to minimize visual impacts.
          Dimensional standards and allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures 8-13B(a)
          and 8-13B(b) of this Section.
       2. Traditional Lots. Traditional lots provide two (2) functions. Some are buffers between
          different uses and are larger lots in an open rural setting. These lots are used to
          transition between adjoining properties and development or open space and
          development. They also transition between different lot types within the development.
          In sum, traditional lots are intended to provide a transition from farm to village
          character. Dimensional standards and allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures
          8-13B(a) and 8-13B(b) of this Section.
       3. Village Lots. Village lots are reminiscent of the "in town" areas traditionally found in
          Idaho's agricultural towns and villages. These lots and the homes built on them are
          intended to form a close-knit residential village with strong pedestrian and community
          orientation that is found in some of the great older neighborhoods of Boise (such as the

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 354
         north end). Dimensional standards and allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures
         8-13B(a) and 8-13B(b) of this Section.
     4. Townhome Lots. Townhome lots are the community's smallest lots and are intended
        to provide alternative, attached, or smaller detached homes that may appeal to seniors,
        empty nesters, first time buyers, and/or single parents who prefer a small home with
        limited yard area. Townhome lots also include commercial uses. Townhome lots are
        intended to be located in or within convenient walking distance of the Town Center.
        Dimensional standards and allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures 8-13B(a)
        and 8-13B(b) of this Section.
     5. Developed Open Space Lots. Developed open space lots within the project are
        intended to provide both active and passive recreational opportunities. Developed open
        space lots may include neighborhood and community parks, community gardens, the
        Dry Creek greenbelt path, the project wide trail system, ponds, wetlands, creeks, and
        riparian areas. Dimensional standards and allowed uses are set forth in the tables in
        figures 8-13B(a) and 8-13B(b) of this Section.
     6. Natural Open Space Lots. Natural open space lots within the project are intended to
        provide both active and passive recreational opportunities as well as wildlife or natural
        open areas. Natural open space lots may include the project wide trail system, ponds,
        wetlands, creeks, riparian areas and designated wildlife areas. Dimensional standards
        and allowed uses are set forth in the tables in figures 8-13B(a) and 8-13B(b) of this
        Section.
     7. Community Center Lots. Community Center lots within Cartwright Ranch will be
        used for the Community Center, community pool, post office, and other civic and
        community service uses. Dimensional standards and allowed uses are set forth in the
        tables in figures 8-13B(a) and 8-13B(b) of this Section.
  C. Application of Zoning Restrictions to Lot Types. The lot type shall be designated for
     each lot on each preliminary plat and final plat in Cartwright Ranch and the zoning
     restrictions imposed by this Article shall attach to each lot at the time of recording of the
     final plat. The restrictions applying to any lot shall change without further action in the
     event the lot is replatted to a different lot type. In addition to any other restriction imposed
     by this Article, final plats in Cartwright Ranch may designate building envelopes within
     lots. No structure may be constructed outside of a designated building envelope unless the
     lot is replatted in accordance with this code.
  D. Use of Unplatted Property. Unplatted property within Cartwright Ranch is intended to be
     used for its historic agricultural and other uses, as well as certain other uses in furtherance
     of the agricultural operations and goals and objectives of the Cartwright Ranch
     Comprehensive Plan. It is the ultimate intent that all property within Cartwright Ranch be
     platted and divided into different lot types. Notwithstanding 8-2-22 of this Title, any
     improvements associated with the uses specified in figure 8-13B(b) of this Section may be
     developed and constructed on any unplatted property within Cartwright Ranch. All uses of
     the unplatted property shall be consistent with this Article and the Cartwright Ranch
     Comprehensive Plan.
  E. Purpose of Cartwright Ranch Land Use Map. The Cartwright Ranch land use map


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 355
          contained within the Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan depicts the general nature and
          relative intensity of residential and nonresidential development and uses by neighborhood
          and lot type, subject to the appropriate flexibility and other standards discussed in
          subsection 8-13B-3B of this Article and elsewhere in this Article.
   F. Allowed Uses Within Land Use Districts. Within the Cartwright Ranch PC district
      described above, uses shall be allowed on lot types as set forth in the table in figure 8-
      13B(b) of this Section. Uses that are not specifically listed but are determined by the
      Director to be similar to listed permitted or conditional uses are also, respectively,
      permitted or conditionally permitted. All other uses are prohibited.

CARTWRIGHT RANCH
FIGURE 8-13B(a) LAND USE SUMMARY TABLE
Lot                   View   Traditional      Village    Townhome       Community       Developed Open    Natural
Characteristics       Lots   Lots             Lots       Lots 6         Center Lots     Space Lots        Open
                                                                                                          Space
                                                                                                          Lots
Dimensions:
Lot size (minimum)                  8,000         6,000 sq.   3,200     1,200 sq. ft.   1,600     See     See
                                    sq. ft.       ft.         sq. ft.                   sq. ft.   noted   noted
Lot depth (minimum)                 100'          100'        80'       60'             40'       See     See
                                                                                                  noted   noted
Lot width (minimum)                 80'           60'         40'       20'             40'       See     See
                                                                                                  noted   noted
Lot frontage (flag)                 30'           30'         30'       0'              0'        See     See
                                                                                                  noted   noted
Setbacks:
Front yard to living space          20'           20'         10'       10'             20'       See     See
(minimum)                                                                                         noted   noted
Front yard alley loaded garage      n/a           10'         10'       10'
(minimum)
Front yard street loaded garage     20'           20'         20'       20'
(minimum)
Side yard interior                  3'            3'          3'        0'              20'       See     See
lot5 (minimum)                                                                                    noted   noted
Alley side yard5 (minimum)          3'            3'          3'        0'              20'       See     See
                                                                                                  noted   noted
Street side yard lot4 (minimum)     13'           13'         13'       13'             30'       n/a     n/a
Minimum separation between          15'           10'         10'       10'             n/a       n/a     n/a
buildings
Rear yard (main structure)          20'           20'         10'       10'             20'       See     See
(minimum)                                                                                         noted   noted
Rear yard (garage, storage or       10'           10'         10'       10'             n/a       See     See
garden structures) (minimum)                                                                      noted   noted
Others:
Maximum building height             35'           35'         40'       45'             45'       45'     45'
Building coverage (maximum)         50%           60%         70%       85%             100%      n/a     n/a



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 356
 Impervious surface coverage       70%           80%         90%       100%        100%       n/a     n/a
 (maximum)
 Parking                           See           See notes   See       See notes   See note   See     See
                                   notes         a and b     notes     a and b     a          noted   noted
                                   a and b                   a and
                                                             b


  Notes:
      1.          With resident family and not to exceed 2 persons.
      2.          Excluding drive-through.
      3.          Provided actual dry cleaning is done off site.
      4.          Only from corner property line.
      5.          Minimum setback is permitted only when minimum separation to adjoining
                  buildings is maintained.
        6.        Single buildings permitted on multiple lots.
        7.        Standards in this Article shall apply in lieu of County standards for multi-family
                  development.
                  a.     Per Ada County standards.
                  b.     Includes garaged spaces.
                  c.     If use is determined not to be accessory, it is conditional.
                  d.     None.


        • - Principal permitted use.
        A - Accessory use.
        C - Conditional permitted use.
        Blank - Blank space denotes use is not permitted.

In the event of a conflict between the land use summary table and the text of this Article, the text
shall prevail.

CARTWRIGHT RANCH
FIGURE 8-13B(b) LAND USE SUMMARY TABLE
                                             Cartwright Ranch PC District

   Allowed Uses                View Lots     Traditional     Village    Townhome Community Developed Natural
                                             Lots            Lots       Lots     Center Lots Open       Open
                                                                                             Space Lots Space
                                                                                                        Lots
   Residential:

             Accessory         A             A               A          A
             structure,
             attached or
             detached




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 357
               Condominium     •   •   •   •


               Convalescent                •
               home

               Duplex                      •
               dwelling

               Model           •   •   •   •
               home

               Multi- family   •   •   •   •
               dwelling6

               Rental          •   •   •   •
               apartment

               Single-         •   •   •   •
               family
               dwelling

               Storage         A   A   A   A   A   A   C
               structure

               Temporary       •   •   •   •   •
               sales office

   Business:

               Bank                        •   •
               branch
               office2
               Bar                         •


               Bed and         C   C   C   •
               breakfast
               establishment

               Clinic                      •


               Dry cleaning                •
               and
               laundry2,3

               Home            A   A   A   A
               occupation




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 358
            Office:                 •   •   •   •
            business and
            professional

            Park and                        •   •
            ride facility

            Parking area                    •   •   •   C
            or lot

            Parking                         •
            structure

            Personal                        •
            service
            retail


            Restaurant4                     •   •


            Retail                          •
            store2

            Roomer or           A   A   A   A
            boarder1

            Service                         C
            station

            Spa or                      •   •   •
            health
            retreat

            University                      •   •
            related
            research/
            cultural facility


            All other                       C
            retail and
            commercial
            uses
            compatible
            with stated
            uses



   Community support uses6:
            Cell tower          C   C   C   C   C   C   C




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 359
             Community                  •   •   •
             center

             Family             •   •   •   •
             daycare
             home

             Fire protection,           •   •   •
             law
             enforcement
             and emergency
             medical facility

             Group                          •
             daycare
             home

             Health             C   C   •   •   •
             club
             facility

             Library                    •   •   •


             Place of                   •   •   •
             public
             worship

             Public structure C     C   C   C   •   Ac   Ac


             School,            •   •   •   •   •
             public or
             private

             Social hall,               •   •   •
             club or lodge

             Utility            C   C   C   C   •   •    •
             structure,
             except cell
             tower


   Agriculture:

             Agricultural       C   C   C   C   C   •    C
             operation

             Agricultural                   •       •    •
             outbuilding




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 360
             Nursery, retail                                 C
             or greenhouse

   Recreation:

             Golf                                                        •           •
             practice
             facility

             Park              •        •           •        •           •           •           C


             Recreation                                                  •           •
             facility

             Swimming          A        A           A        •           •           •
             pool

             Tennis            A        A           A        •           •           •
             court

             Trail                                                       •           •           •



  Notes:
       1.        With resident family and not to exceed 2 persons.
       2.        Excluding drive-through.
       3.        Provided actual dry cleaning is done off site.
       4.        Only from corner property line.
       5.        Minimum setback is permitted only when minimum separation to adjoining
                 buildings is maintained.
       6.        Single buildings permitted on multiple lots.
       7.        Standards in this Article shall apply in lieu of County standards for multi-family
                 development.
                 a.     Per Ada County standards.
                 b.     Includes garaged spaces.
                 c.     If use is determined not to be accessory, it is conditional.
                 d.     None.


       • - Principal permitted use.
       A - Accessory use.
       C - Conditional permitted use.
       Blank - Blank space denotes use is not permitted.

In the event of a conflict between the land use summary table and the text of this Article, the text
shall prevail.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 361
8-13B-6: Administrative Regulations
   A. Preliminary Plat. Prior to approval of any preliminary plat for Cartwright Ranch, the
      Board must determine that the plat complies with this Cartwright Ranch Zoning Ordinance
      and is in accordance with the Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   B. Building Permits and Grading Permits. Building permits and grading permits within
      Cartwright Ranch shall be issued in accordance with the Ada County Building Code
      ordinance; provided, however, that no building or grading permit shall be issued to an
      applicant until such time as the applicant has provided to the county: 1) a decision issued
      by Cartwright Ranch design review committee in conformance with the Cartwright Ranch
      design guidelines approving or denying the proposed building, site, or landscape
      improvements for which the building permit or grading permit is being sought; 2) a permit
      from the applicable sewer authority; and 3) proof of payment of applicable impact fees to
      the Ada County highway district. If the Cartwright Ranch design review committee denies
      a proposed improvement (which decision must include a written explanation for the denial)
      or fails to respond within a reasonable period of time, then Ada County may issue a permit
      if the Director determines, in the exercise of his or her discretion, that the committee's
      decision is illegal or improper.
   C. Zoning Certificate. A zoning certificate shall be required for all uses within Cartwright
      Ranch and shall be issued in conformance with the requirements of the Ada County Zoning
      Ordinance.
   D. Conditional Uses. Conditional uses within Cartwright Ranch may only be permitted with
      a conditional use permit issued in accordance with the conditional use standards in the Ada
      County Zoning Ordinance.
   E. Accessory Uses. Accessory uses within Cartwright Ranch shall be reviewed in accordance
      with the procedures of the Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
   F. Public Community Event Permit Approval Process. Public community events within
      Cartwright Ranch shall require approval by the Cartwright Ranch property owners'
      association and shall otherwise be exempt from any Ada County approval requirements.
8-13B-7:       Setbacks; Structural and Spatial Requirements
See Section 8-13B-5, figure 8-13B(a) of this Article.
8-13B-8:       Landscaping Requirements
   A. Applicability. Except as set forth in this Article, Cartwright Ranch shall be exempt from
      the landscaping requirements of this Title.
   B. Standards
       1. All landscaping on individual lots within Cartwright Ranch shall conform to the
          following standards:
           a. Landscape improvements shall incorporate, rehabilitate, and enhance the existing
              site, incorporate indigenous species, and minimize areas of intensive irrigation.
           b. Landscape plantings should consist of at least two (2) different varieties and types
              in order to create a more unified rather than fragmented landscape.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 362
           c. Landscaping will be used to establish a clear and logical orientation to the
              neighborhoods and open space areas within Cartwright Ranch, including the
              following areas:
              1. Entry areas from Cartwright Road to the community will be characterized by
                 open, country roads lined with native grasses punctuated by select plantings of
                 deciduous tree groves that will reinforce the entries as community gateways.
              2. Riparian areas along Dry Creek will be characterized by naturalistic placement
                 of trees and shrubs that will enhance and replicate the existing riparian
                 environment while providing wildlife habitat.
              3. Natural open space lots will remain in their natural state or selectively enhanced
                 as appropriate to the land and wildlife management parameters of the project.
              4. Town Center lots will include traditional street trees in planting strips and
                 medians with front and rear yard domestic gardens in residential and
                 commercial lots.
              5. View lots will include irrigated landscape envelopes that contrast with
                 enhanced native shrubs and grasses outside those envelopes.
      2. All landscaping improvements within the right of way of local, collector and arterial
         streets within Cartwright Ranch shall conform to the standards in sub-element F5
         (roadway design) and sub-element F9 (landscape standards) of the Cartwright Ranch
         development plan, and shall conform to the following standards:
           a. Along streets with curb, gutter and sidewalk, trees shall be provided with a
              minimum spacing of fifty feet (50').
           b. Along streets without curb, gutter and sidewalk, other plantings shall be provided
              as appropriate with the topography and site.
   C. Process. No final plat shall be approved until such time as the applicant has provided a
      landscape plan to Ada County, for review and approval, of proposed landscaping within
      road rights of way or common areas. The landscape plan shall contain the following:
      1. The location, size, and type of all proposed landscaping materials (including specific
         references as to the species of plant materials), and verification that minimum
         landscaping requirements have been satisfied. All plants shall be shown at seventy five
         percent (75%) mature growth.
      2. Existing vegetation to be saved shall be identified on the landscaping plan along with
         protection measures to be used during grading and construction.
8-13B-9:      Open Space Requirements
   A. Purpose. The purpose of this Article is to encourage well designed open space at
      Cartwright Ranch.
   B. Applicability. These regulations shall apply to open space lots within Cartwright Ranch.
   C. General Regulations
      1. Preliminary Plat. In approving each preliminary plat within Cartwright Ranch, the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 363
            Board shall determine that the plat is in accordance with the open space parks and trails
            plan, which is part of the Cartwright Ranch development plan attached to the
            Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan, with consideration of the flexibility provisions
            of this Article and the plan.
      2. Allowed Open Space Uses. Allowable uses on open space lots shall include, but not
         be limited to, the uses set forth in Section 8-13B-5, figure 8-13B(b) of this Article and
         otherwise described in this Article.
   D. Design Standards
      1. The design shall be consistent with Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan and other
         adopted regional or local open space and recreation plans including the Ada County
         ridge to rivers pathway plan.
      2. All open space lots shall be accessible to residents of Cartwright Ranch.
      3. The number of private or public roadways that divide open space lots shall be limited
         to those necessary for proper traffic circulation, and the roadways shall not detract from
         the efficient use of the open space.
      4. Open space lots shall be free of all structures, except those that enhance the use of the
         open space including, but not limited to, structures related to outdoor recreational use,
         structures of historic and/or cultural significance, educational buildings, well houses,
         utilities, infrastructure and facilities, and stormwater retention basins.
      5. No more than ten percent (10%) of the total open space in Cartwright Ranch shall be
         impervious surface.
      6. Open space lots shall be connected to open space areas on neighboring properties
         wherever possible including provisions for pedestrian walkways to create linked
         walkway or pathway systems.
8-13B-10:     Street Frontage and Access Requirements
See Section 8-13B-5, figure 8-13B(a) of this Article.
8-13B-11:      Sign Requirements
   A. Applicability. Except as set forth in this Article, Cartwright Ranch shall be exempt from
      the sign requirements of this Title.
   B. Standards
      1. All signs within Cartwright Ranch shall conform to the following standards:
            a. Freestanding signs should be in proportion/scale to the surrounding elements.
            b. Identification signs will be provided at project entrances and appropriately
               illuminated by indirect and screened or ground mounted lighting.
            c. Commercial signs shall be small and subdued to respect the residential character of
               the community; maximum commercial sign size is thirty-two (32) square feet per
               side.
            d. The following signs are prohibited:
               1. Signs that constitute a hazard to traffic or pedestrians;

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 364
               2. Signs located within any stream or drainage channel;
               3. Mobile signs or portable signs; balloons, flags, or kite style signs;
               4. Inflatable signs;
               5. Signs that produce odor, sound, smoke, flame, or other emissions;
               6. Signs that imitate or simulate official signs or that use yellow or red blinking or
                  intermittent lights resembling danger or warning signals;
               7. Signs using strobe lights or individual light bulbs exceeding seventy-five (75)
                  watts;
               8. Signs on public property or right of way or signs attached to utility poles,
                  streetlights, fences, barns, sheds, or similar structures; and
               9. Roof signs and billboards.
8-13B-12:      On and Off-Street Parking Requirements
All parking shall meet Federal Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements and shall be
in accordance with the parking provisions of this Title, except as set forth in Section 8-13B-5,
figure 8-13B(a) of this Article or elsewhere in this Article.
8-13B-13:      Standards for Energy and Water Conservation
   A. All development within Cartwright Ranch shall conform to the following standards:
       1. Indoor Water and Energy Use
            a. Water heaters will be energy star qualified or have equivalent performance
               specifications.
            b. Cooling equipment will consist of energy star qualified air conditioning unit or heat
               pump or have equivalent performance specifications.
            c. Heating equipment will consist of Energy Star qualified gas furnace, heat pump or
               boiler or have equivalent performance specifications.
            d. At least three (3) energy star labeled light fixtures or energy star labeled compact
               fluorescent light bulbs will be installed.
            e. Windows will be energy star qualified or have equivalent performance
               specifications.
       2. Outdoor Water and Energy Use
            a. Turf areas will be zoned separately from other planted beds, based on watering
               needs. A timer/controller will activate valves for each watering zone.
            b. View lots will concentrate irrigated landscaping within landscape envelopes.
8-13B-14:      Grading Requirements
Grading within Cartwright Ranch shall be in conformance with this Title and Title 7, Chapter 2,
"Building Codes," of this code. Grading on slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%) shall comply
with the hillside adaptive grading standards found in Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan
policies CR 5.3-2, CR 6.1-1, and 12.1-2.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 365
8-13B-15:     Design Standards for Structures and Site Improvements
   A. All structures and site improvements within Cartwright Ranch shall be consistent with
      Cartwright Ranch Comprehensive Plan objectives CR 8.3 and CR 12.2, and the following
      standards:
       1. The visual bulk of hillside residential development should be reduced so structures do
          not standout prominently when seen from a distance.
       2. Building form should conform to site topography and not overshadow natural site
          features.
       3. Step structures with slope and cut into hillsides should be utilized to reduce visual bulk.
       4. Building height should be minimized on highly visible ridge areas by avoiding multi-
          story houses that "skyline" on ridges and by locating residential buildings so as not to
          impact views near ridges.
       5. No adjacent single-family detached home will be permitted to have the same plan,
          elevation, or color.
       6. Homes in village lots shall provide rear entry garages where access is provided.
       7. Wood shake roofs are prohibited.
       8. On view lots, building materials and color schemes should blend with the natural
          landscape of earth tones and grassland vegetation but minimize fuel potential for
          wildfires.
       9. Buildings, accessory structures, fences, etc., shall be oriented to minimize impact on
          views and adjacent uses.
       10. Mechanical equipment on roofs, aboveground transformers, satellite dishes, active
           solar panels, utility equipment and loading, service and storage areas shall be screened
           from view from the streets, pathways, public areas, and adjacent uses.
       11. Trash enclosures and maintenance structures shall be designed to be compatible in
           style, materials and colors with the main building and shall be of masonry type
           construction.
8-13B-16: Amendments
Amendments to this Article shall be in accordance with Section 8-6-33 and 8-6-34 of this Title.
Article C: Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community
SECTION:
8-13C-1:              SHORT TITLE
8-13C-2:              PURPOSE AND INTENT
8-13C-3:              APPLICABILITY
8-13C-4:              DEFINITIONS
8-13C-5:              LAND USE DISTRICTS
8-13C-6:              LAND USE REGULATIONS
8-13C-7:              ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
8-13C-8:              SPECIFIC USE STANDARD
8-13C-9:              OPEN SPACE

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 366
8-13C-10:             SIGN REQUIREMENTS
8-13C-11:             ON AND OFF STREET PARKING
8-13C-12:             STANDARDS FOR ENERGY AND WATER CONSERVATION
8-13C-13:             GRADING REQUIREMENTS
8-13C-14:             DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURES AND SITE
                      IMPROVEMENTS
8-13C-15:             FRONTAGE AND ACCESS
8-13C-16:             EASEMENTS
8-13C-17:             LANDSCAPING
8-13C-18:             AMENDMENTS
8-13C-1:       Short Title
This Article shall be known, cited and referred to as the DRY CREEK RANCH PLANNED
COMMUNITY ZONING ORDINANCE.
8-13C-2:       Purpose and Intent
Generally, this Article is enacted with the purpose and intent of promoting, on behalf of the Dry
Creek Ranch Planned Community, public health, safety, comfort and general welfare; to conserve
and control the population density and to facilitate adequate and economical provisions for public
improvements, all in accordance with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan for the desirable
future physical development of the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community; all as authorized by the
Ada County Comprehensive Plan, the Ada County Zoning Ordinance, the State statutes and the
Constitution of the State.
Specifically, the purpose and intent of this Article is to set forth the development standards for
implementing the land use policies of the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. This Article shall
be consistent with the adopted Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. Furthermore, it is the
purpose of this Article to:
   A. Provide for the design of quality, mixed use development within the Dry Creek Ranch
      Planned Community;
   B. Provide distinctive, efficient, and effective standards to guide development in the Dry
      Creek Ranch Planned Community;
   C. Allow flexibility and creativity for reconfiguration of residential and nonresidential uses
      and/or population density as long as these reconfigurations do not conflict with the Dry
      Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan and this Article;
   D. Provide for the integration and balance of a variety of uses in the Dry Creek Ranch Planned
      Community; and
   E. Identify and define standards for uses which may occur in each of the land use categories.
8-13C-3:        Applicability
This Article governs the development of the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community, as shown on
the Dry Creek Ranch Land Use Map found in the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. Where
this Article specifically references other Sections of this Code, such other Sections of said Code
shall apply and govern. This Article shall not apply to any land not incorporated within the Dry
Creek Ranch Planned Community boundary. Land outside the Dry Creek Ranch Planned


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 367
Community may be annexed per the Dry Creek Ranch development agreement and this Code, as
applicable.
   A. Scope And Content. For the purpose of administration and enforcement, the Dry Creek
      Ranch Planned Community Land Use Map as adopted by Ada County shall be considered
      as the official land use map.
   B. Flexibility. The development standards contained in the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive
      Plan and this Article depict the general nature and relative intensity of residential and
      nonresidential development in the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community, while allowing
      sufficient flexibility at the time of detailed planning and platting so that the overall goals,
      and policies of the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan can be achieved. The
      configuration and densities of development parcels and phases may be altered to
      accommodate site and other conditions and revisions to the project's implementation
      strategy providing that the reconfiguration does not conflict with the land use map, specific
      restrictions contained within Section 8-13C-5 of this Article, or the Dry Creek Ranch
      Comprehensive Plan and this Article.
8-13C-4:       Definitions
The following definitions shall be used in the interpretation of the Dry Creek Ranch Zoning
Ordinance. Any term used in this Article not defined herein, shall have the meaning set forth in
Chapter 10 of this Title. Any term not defined herein or in Chapter 10 of this Title, shall have its
plain and ordinary meaning.
ACTIVE ADULT COMMUNITY: An age-restricted development, which may be in any housing
form, including detached and attached dwelling units, apartments, condominiums, and residences,
offering private and semi-private rooms.
ALLEY, DRY CREEK RANCH: A service roadway that may be public or private, providing a
means of access to an abutting property and may be utilized for general traffic circulation. An alley
may also provide required frontage to a building lot.
BULK: A building's shape, size, and mass. Often expressed and determined by its floor area ratio
(FAR).
BUSINESS PARK: A development on a tract of land that contains a number of separate office
structures, with accessory and supporting uses, and open space designed, planned, constructed,
and managed on an integrated and coordinated basis.
COMMON DRIVEWAY: An access shared by adjacent property owners that is privately owned
and maintained.
COMMUNITY CENTER: A structure or structures utilized for recreational, social, educational,
and cultural activities by Dry Creek Ranch residents.
COMMUNITY INFORMATION CENTER: A temporary structure, administrative facilities, and
parking area principally used as an information pavilion and/or office for the sale of homes in the
community.
DESIGN GUIDELINES: Sub-Element F-9 of the currently adopted Dry Creek Ranch
Development Plan on file with the Ada County Development Services Department.
DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE (DRC): The Design Review Committee for the Dry Creek


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 368
Ranch Planned Community created in accord with the requirements established in the recorded
covenants, conditions, and restrictions for the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community.
DRUGSTORE: A store where the primary business is the filling of medical prescriptions and the
sale of drugs, medical devices and supplies and nonprescription medicines but where non-medical
products may be sold as well.
DRY CREEK RANCH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan
consists of the vision, goals, objectives, policies, and maps as adopted by the Board, and serves as
a guide for development of the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community. The Dry Creek Ranch
Development Plan and economic impact analyses are included as addenda to the Dry Creek Ranch
Comprehensive Plan. A copy of the approved Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan with addenda
is on file with the Ada County Development Services Department.
DRY CREEK RANCH DEVELOPMENT PLAN: The Dry Creek Ranch Development Plan
includes: a) a natural features map and analysis; b) a narrative describing the proposed land uses
and design of the project; c) a map showing existing land uses within one (1) mile of the project
site; d) a narrative assessment of development and population trends in Ada County; e) a
transportation and mobility plan; f) a community services and utilities plan; g) an open space, parks
and trails plan; h) a wildlife mitigation plan; i) narrative and examples of proposed central design
concepts; j) a phasing plan; k) a letter from West Ada School District indicating school capacities
and facility needs; and l) a stormwater management plan and narrative. The Dry Creek Ranch
Development Plan is on file with the Ada County Development Services Department.
DRY CREEK RANCH LAND USE MAP: A map identifying land use designations and/or land
use districts within the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community and found in the Dry Creek Ranch
Planned Community Comprehensive Plan.
DRY CREEK RANCH, OPEN-SPACE: See definition of open-space.
DRY CREEK RANCH OR THE DRY CREEK RANCH PLANNED COMMUNITY: That area
depicted as such on the Dry Creek Ranch Land Use Map and Ada County Zoning Map.
DRY CREEK RANCH PROPERTY OWNERS' ASSOCIATION: The Idaho nonprofit or for-
profit corporation whose members or stockholders consist exclusively of property owners within
the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community and whose purpose is to provide for the administration
and governance of the affairs of the Dry Creek Ranch in accordance with the covenants and
restrictions of Dry Creek Ranch.
DWELLING, ACCESSORY: a) An independent dwelling unit that has been added onto or created
within a single-family dwelling; b) A dwelling unit that is located in a completely separate
structure on the same lot as the principal dwelling and is subordinate to the principal dwelling,
such as a guesthouse.
DWELLING, LIVE/WORK: A residential use type that combines a dwelling and a commercial
space under single ownership in a structure.
DWELLING, LOFT: A residential dwelling unit located above a non-residential use.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence constructed with openings between the materials used in its construction.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including gates, constructed of solid material, wood or masonry through
which no visual images may be seen.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 369
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Eagle Fire District.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The sum of the horizontal areas of the several floors inside the
exterior walls of a building or portion thereof, divided by the lot area.
FRONTAGE, DRY CREEK RANCH: That side of a lot abutting either a public or private street
or alleyway.
GREENWAY:
       A. A linear open space established along either a natural corridor, such as waterway,
       ridgeline, scenic roadway or other route;
       B. Any natural or landscaped course for pedestrian, equestrian or bicycle passage;
       C. An open-space connector linking parks, community gardens, natural spaces, cultural
       features or historic sites with each other and with populated areas;
       D. Locally, certain strip or linear parks designated as a parkway or greenbelt; or
       E. Any man-made linear open space along a canal, lateral or ditch. Greenways shall be
       considered "developed open space."
HEALTH CLUB FACILITY: An establishment that provides facilities for aerobic exercise,
running and jogging, exercise equipment, game courts, swimming facilities, saunas, therapeutic
massage, lockers, showers, personal training and nutritional services and products.
HOSPITAL, LARGE ANIMAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care of
the following animals: cattle, sheep, goats, horses, hogs, large exotic cats, or similar animals.
HOSPITAL, SMALL ANIMAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care of
the following animals: dogs, cats, primates, birds, waterfowl, reptiles, rodents, and similar animals.
LANDSCAPE PLAN: A component of a development plan on which are shown: proposed
landscape species (such as number, spacing, size at time of planting and planting details);
proposals for protection of existing vegetation during and after construction; proposed treatment
of hard and soft surfaces; proposed decorative features; grade changes and buffers and screening
devices.
LARGE ANIMAL GROOMING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
grooming of the following animals: cattle, sheep, goats, horses, hogs, large exotic cats, or similar
animals.
LOT, CORNER: A lot or parcel abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection or upon
two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street forming an interior angle
of less than one hundred thirty-five degrees (135°). The point of intersection of the street lines is
the "corner."
LOT, FLAG: A lot where access to the public or private road is by a private right-of-way or
driveway. Minimum lot frontage for flag lots shall be as specified in Section 8-13C-5, table 8-
13C-5D of this Article.
MEW: Dwelling units built around a common open space area or court where the units face the
open space area and are generally not accessed from a public street.
MODEL HOME: A single-family dwelling which is shown to prospective buyers of lots or


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 370
dwellings for the purpose of promoting the retail sale of lots or dwellings within Dry Creek Ranch.
OPEN-SPACE: An open area used for passive or active recreation by the residents of Dry Creek
Ranch or for conservation.
OPEN-SPACE, DEVELOPED: An open area for human activities that range from recreation
activities to pastimes. Developed open space includes those parcels of property, such as roadway
medians, which are improved and landscaped. Parks, pathways, and trailways shall be considered
developed open space.
OPEN-SPACE, NATURAL: An open space area generally not occupied by any structures. These
open spaces may include pathways, and trailways with or without pavement, wayfinding and/or
interpretative signage.
PARKWAY: A landscaped area located between the edge of a street section or curb and a sidewalk
dedicated to separate pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
PATHWAY: A clear way for pedestrians; equestrians or bicyclists that may or may not be
improved.
RESTAURANT, OUTDOOR: Any part of a food establishment located outdoors, not used for any
other purposes, open to the sky, with the exception that it may have retractable awning or umbrellas
and may contain furniture including: tables; chairs; railings and planters.
SHOPPING CENTER, CONVENIENCE COMMERCIAL: A small shopping center that typically
features an approximately two thousand five hundred (2,500) square foot groceries/sundries store
as an anchor tenant and may also provide other services such as gasoline sales, dry cleaners, coffee
shop, dentist office, beauty shop, day care, etc. A convenience shopping center may have an
average building area ranging from fifteen thousand (15,000) to thirty-five thousand (35,000)
square feet and occupy one (1) to three (3) acres.
SHOPPING CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL: A moderate sized shopping center
planned and developed as a unit, typically composed of a grocery up to sixty thousand (60,000)
square feet in size, and usually containing additional smaller tenants serving a local market area.
A neighborhood shopping center may have a gross floor area ranging from thirty-five thousand
(35,000) to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet and may occupy up to ten (10) acres.
SMALL ANIMAL GROOMING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
grooming of the following animals: dogs, cats, primates, birds, waterfowl, reptiles, rodents and
similar animals.
STABLE, BOARDING: A structure designed for the feeding, housing, and exercising of horses
not owned by the owner of the premises for which the owner of the premises may receive
compensation.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or structure for the keeping of one (1) or
more horses or cows owned and used by the occupant of the premises and not for remuneration,
hire or sale.
STREET, ISLAND, DRY CREEK RANCH: A landscape island located within or surrounded by
public or private street right-of-way.
STREET, KNUCKLE, DRY CREEK RANCH: An expansion of a local street typically around
curves providing access to abutting properties and enlarged turning movement.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 371
STREET, PRIVATE, DRY CREEK RANCH: A street approved by Ada County, which provides
both access and street frontage for individual lots. Private streets are to be owned and maintained
by the Dry Creek Ranch Property Owners' Association.
SUBSTANTIAL CONFORMANCE, DRY CREEK RANCH: A final plat located within the Dry
Creek Ranch Planned Community shall be deemed to be in substantial conformance to an approved
preliminary plat provided that the final plat represents no increase in the number of buildable lots
as approved for the preliminary plat and a twenty-five percent (25%) or less deviation in the
dimensional standard shown on the preliminary plat, provided that the density and lot dimensions
meet the standards of the base zoning district. Unless required by a public highway agency, public
utility, or Federal or State agency, deviations greater than twenty-five percent (25%) or more of
any dimensional standard shown on the preliminary plat shall not be deemed in substantial
conformance.
TREES, CLASS I, II, III: The classes of trees are defined for the purposes of this Title by the
publication Tree Selection Guide for Streets and Landscapes Throughout Idaho. In general, Class
I trees are smaller ornamental trees, Class II trees are medium/large trees appropriate for street tree
planting, and Class III trees are very large trees.
WATER TOWER: A water storage facility, usually above ground.
XERISCAPE: Landscaping that is characterized by the use of vegetation that is drought tolerant
or of low water use in character.
8-13C-5:         Land Use Districts
The purpose of this Section is to implement the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. These
districts are intended to provide appropriate density for residential, commercial, open space and
other development based on the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan. The Dry Creek Ranch
Comprehensive Plan depicts the general nature and relative intensity of residential and
nonresidential land use districts subject to the appropriate flexibility discussed elsewhere in this
Article.
   A. Land Use Districts. It is the purpose of these districts to provide regulations and standards
      for development of residential; mixed-use; commercial; village center development in a
      variety of typologies including but not limited to single-family detached dwellings; zero-
      lot line developments of single-family detached dwellings; single-family attached
      dwellings, duplexes, townhouses and multi-family dwellings; office; retail; and
      neighborhood commercial where a municipal wastewater collection and treatment system
      and community water system are provided. A general description of the allowed uses
      within each district is provided below. For a detailed list of allowed uses see Section 8-
      13C-6, tables 8-13C-6A and 8-13C-6B of this Article and for dimensional standards see
      table 8-13C-5D of this Section.
       The Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community is divided into the following land use districts
       as shown on the land use map contained in the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan and
       in Figures B-3.a, B-3.b, and B-3.c of the Dry Creek Ranch Development Plan.
       Gross and net density calculations for individual development areas within the project may
       be calculated with decimal figures. Gross and net density calculations for the entire
       property shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 372
     Equestrian District. The Equestrian District allows for a gross density between one half
     (0.5) and dwelling units per acre. This district may include single-family detached
     dwellings.
     Hillside District. The Hillside District allows for a gross density between one and a half
     (1.5) and five and a half (5.5) dwelling units per acre. This district may include single-
     family detached dwellings, single-family attached dwellings, duplexes, and townhouses.
     Low Density District. The Low-Density District allows for a gross density between two
     and a half (2.5) and four (4) dwelling units per acre. This district may include single-family
     detached dwellings, single-family attached dwellings, duplexes, and townhouses.
     Medium Density District. The Medium Density District allows for a gross density
     between four (4) and seven (7) dwelling units per acre. This district may include single-
     family detached dwellings, single-family attached dwellings, duplexes, and townhouses.
     Mixed-Use District. The Mixed-Use District provides for a wide range of commercial,
     office, retail, industrial, and residential uses that allow property owners the flexibility to
     respond to the long-term evolution of development trends. All uses and structures will be
     sited and designed to be compatible with one another with a variety of complementary and
     integrated uses such as: various single-family and multi-family residential uses with gross
     densities of one (1) to twenty (20) dwelling units per acre. A minimum of twenty five
     percent (25%) of the Mixed-Use District shall be devoted to multi-family residential uses
     at a density range of between seven (7) to twenty (20) dwelling units per acre. Only fifty
     percent (50%) of the Mixed-Use District shall be residential uses. Other permitted uses
     include civic, office (including a business park), neighborhood retail, public and quasi-
     public use, and recreation in a compact, urban form. This district is intended to provide
     creativity and flexibility in planning and design of buildings and encourages both vertical
     and horizontal mixing of uses.
     Village Center District. The Village Center Districts allow uses that promote the farm-
     to-table concept of Dry Creek, including community gardens, orchards, and small-scale
     nurseries that may take advantage of existing geothermal resources in the community. The
     Village Center Districts will also provide recreational opportunities, including riding
     arenas, sports fields, amphitheaters, clubhouses, and pools, as illustrated in the Dry Creek
     Ranch Development Plan. The Village Center District will also allow for limited
     commercial uses, as further set forth in Section 8-13C-6, table 8-13C-6B of this Article.
     Park District. The Park District allows for the ability to provide developed open space,
     including active and passive uses. Areas designated as park areas are intended to provide
     both active and passive recreational opportunities. Park area uses include, but are not
     limited to: neighborhood and community parks; trail systems; greenbelts along Dry Creek
     and Spring Valley Creek; parkways; village park(s); community gardens; outdoor
     amphitheaters and interpretative centers.
     Institutional/School Site District. The Institutional/School Site District allows a public-
     use, such as a religious building; library; public or private school; hospital; or government-
     owned or operated building, structure or land used for public purpose.
     Natural Open Space District. The Natural Open Space District allows for protection of
     natural or enhanced areas that are environmentally sensitive areas with characteristics such


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 373
       as steep slopes, habitat or areas of significant biological productivity or uniqueness that
       have been designated for protection. This district shall be thought of as natural open space
       for the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community. However, paths; trails, both paved and
       unpaved; along with interpretative signage shall be allowed within this district.
       Commercial District. The Commercial District allows for neighborhood or convenience
       commercial opportunities that will serve residents of the Dry Creek Ranch Planned
       Community and other surrounding developments.

 TABLE 8-13C-5D
 DRY CREEK RANCH DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS BY LAND USE DISTRICT
   Dimensional               Land Use Designations - Single Family Residential
   Standards
                             Equestrian                           Hillside       Low         Medium

   Density (dwelling units/gross acre)             0.5 - 3.5      1.5 - 5.5      2.5 - 4.0   4.0 - 7.0


   Minimum lot size:

                             Single-family         13,000 sq.     8,000 sq.      8,000 sq.   4,000 sq.
                             detached dwelling
                                                   ft.            ft.            ft.         ft.
                             Other principal       13,000 sq.     8,000 sq.      8,000 sq.   4,000 sq.
                             structure             ft.            ft.            ft.         ft.

   Minimum lot frontage 1:
                             Interior lot          30'2           15'3           15'3        15'3
                             Corner lot            35'            18'            18'         18'

   Minimum setbacks:

                             From front
                             property line:

                             Dwelling or           15'            10'            10'         10'
                             principal structure

                                Garage             20'            15'            15'         15'

                             From rear
                             property line:

                             Dwelling or           10'            10'            10'         10'
                             principal structure

                             Garage                10'            10'            10'         10'

                             From interior side
                             property line4:




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 374
                          Detached              5'           5'           5'           3'
                          dwelling or
                          principal
                          structure or
                          garage

                          Attached              0'           0'           0'           0'
                          dwelling or
                          principal
                          structure or
                          garage

                          From street side
                          property line:

                          Dwelling or           10'          10'          10'          10'
                          principal structure
                          or garage

   Maximum coverage                             No maximum   No maximum   No maximum   No maximum


   Maximum impervious surface                   No maximum   No maximum   No maximum   No maximum


   Maximum floor area ratio                     No maximum   No maximum   No maximum   No maximum


   Maximum structure height                     40'          40'          40'          40'




  Notes:
           1. See Section 8-13C-15 of this Article for minimum frontage when served by a
              common driveway.
           2. Minimum frontage for flag lots shall be fifteen (15’) feet.
           3. Minimum frontage for flag lots shall be ten (10') feet.
           4. A minimum distance of 6 feet shall be required between structures on adjacent lots.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 375
   Dimensional                                 Land Use Designations
    Standards
                       Mixed   Village         Park           Institutional   Natural   Commercial
                        Use    Center                         / School Site    Open
                                                                               Space

   Density (dwelling           1.0 -     n/a      n/a         n/a             n/a       n/a
   units/gross acre)           20.0

   Minimum lot size:

                  Single-      1,200     n/a      n/a         n/a             n/a       n/a
                  family       sq. ft.
                  detached
                  dwelling


                  Other        1,200     n/a      n/a         n/a             n/a       n/a
                  principal    sq. ft.
                  structure

   Minimum lot
   frontage 1:

                  Interior     0'        0'       0'          20'             0'        0'
                  lot

                  Corner       0'        0'       0'          20'             0'        0'
                  lot

   Minimum setbacks:

                  From front
                  property
                  line:

                   Principal   0'        0'       n/a         20'             n/a       0'
                   structure

                   Accessory   0'        0'       n/a         20'             n/a       0'
                   structure

                   From rear
                   property
                   line:

                   Principal   0'        0'       n/a         20'             n/a       0'
                   structure

                   Accessory   0'        0'       n/a         20'             n/a       0'
                   structure




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 376
                   From            0'      0'       n/a        10'          n/a        0'
                   interior side
                   property
                   line


                   From side       6'      6'       n/a        15'          n/a        n/a
                   street
                   property
                   line


                   From side
                   property
                   line
                   adjacent to
                   alley:

                   Dwelling        10'     10'      n/a        n/a          n/a        n/a
                   or principal
                   structure

                   Garage          0'      0'       n/a        n/a          n/a        n/a


   Maximum coverage                No      No       No         No maximum   No         No
                                   maxim   maxim    maxim                   maxim      maximum
                                   um      um       um                      um

   Maximum impervious              No      No       15%        No maximum   10%        90%
   surface                         maxim   maxim
                                   um      um

   Maximum floor area ratio        No      No       No         No maximum   No         No
                                   maxim   maxim    maxim                   maxim      maximum
                                   um      um       um                      um

   Maximum structure height        60'     60'      60'        60'          65'        65'




  Note:
          1.   See Section 8-13C-15 of this Article for minimum frontage when served by a
               common driveway.

8-13C-6:      Land Use Regulations
Tables 8-13C-6A through 8-13C-6B of this Section list allowed uses within each land-use district.
Approval of these uses shall follow the approval process outlined in Section 8-13C-7 of this
Article.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 377
TABLE 8-13C-6A
ALLOWABLE USES IN THE DRY CREEK RANCH LAND USE DISTRICTS
Principal permitted (P); accessory (A); conditional (C); or prohibited (-) use

   Use                         Equestrian          Hillside         Low          Medium
   Accessory structure         A                   A                A            A
   Active adult                C                   P                P            P
   community
   Agricultural structure      A                   -                -            -
   Agricultural use            P                   -                -            -
   Amusement or                C                   C                C            C
   recreation facility,
   indoor

   Amusement or                C                   C                C            C
   recreation facility,
   outdoor

   Animal boarding with        C                   -                -            -
   outside runs
   Animal clinic, animal       C                   C                C            C
   hospital or veterinary
   office

   Automobile, major           -                   -                -            -
   repair
   Bar, brew pub or            -                   -                -            -
   nightclub
   Bed and breakfast           C                   C                C            C
   establishment
   Brewery or distillery       -                   -                -            -
   Business park               -                   -                -            -
   Car wash                    -                   C                C            C
   Church or place of          C                   C                C            C
   worship
   Clinic, medical             -                   C                C            C
   Club, lodge, or social hall -                   C                C            C

   Community center            P                   P                P            P


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 378
   Community                  P   P   P   P
   information center
   Daycare facility (more     C   C   C   C
   than 12 children)
   Daycare home, family       A   A   A   A
   (6 or fewer children)
   Daycare home, group (7     A   A   A   A
   - 12 children)
   Drive up window service    -   -   -   -
   Drugstore                  -   -   -   -
   Duplex or single-          -   P   P   P
   family attached
   dwelling

   Dwelling, accessory        A   A   A   A
   Dwelling, caretaker for    A   A   A   A
   an approved use
   Dwelling, live/work        -   -   -   -
   Dwelling, loft             -   -   -   -
   Dwelling, multi-           -   -   -   -
   family
   Dwelling, secondary        A   A   A   A
   attached or detached
   Dwelling, single           -   P   P   P
   family attached
   Dwelling, single           P   P   P   P
   family detached
   Farm, garden, lumber, or   -   -   -   -
   building supply store
   Fence, open (no            P   P   P   P
   barbed wire)
   Fence, solid               P   P   P   P
   Gasoline or diesel fuel    -   -   -   -
   sales facility
   Health club facility       -   C   C   C



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 379
   Home occupation          A    A   A   A
   Hospital                 -    -   -   -
   Hospital, large animal   C    -   -   -
   Hospital, small animal   C    C   C   C
   Hotel or motel           -    -   -   -
   Kennel, commercial       -    -   -   -
   Kennel, hobby            A    A   A   A
   Large animal             C    C   C   C
   grooming
   Laundromat               -    -   -   -
   Model home               P    P   P   P
   Nursery, wholesale or    C    C   C   C
   retail
   Nursing facility,        C    C   C   C
   skilled
   Off-street parking       P    P   P   P
   facility
   Office, related to an    A    A   A   A
   approved use
   Office, temporary        A    A   A   A
   construction
   Outdoor storage          A    A   A   A
   Package and letter       -    -   -   -
   delivery service
   Personal, business or    -    -   -   -
   professional services
   Portable classroom       -    -   -   -
   Public or quasi-public   C    C   C   C
   use1
   Radio and television     -    -   -   -
   broadcasting station
   Recycling center         -    -   -   -
   Research and             -    -   -   -
   development facility


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 380
   Residential care            C    C   C   C
   facility
   Restaurant or eating place -     -   -   C
   Restaurant, outdoor         -    -   -   C
   Retail sales, relating to an A   A   A   A
   approved use
   Retail store                -    C   C   C
   School, public or           C    C   C   C
   private
   School, university          -    C   C   C
   School, vocational or       C    C   C   C
   trade
   Shopping center,            -    -   -   -
   convenience
   commercial

   Shopping center,            -    -   -   -
   neighborhood
   commercial

   Signs, non-accessory,       -    -   -   -
   off premises
   Small animal                C    C   C   C
   grooming
   Stable, boarding            P    -   -   -
   Stable or riding arena,     P    -   -   -
   commercial
   Stable, private             P    -   -   -
   Storage facility, self      -    -   -   -
   service
   Studio                      C    C   C   C
   Swimming pool,              -    A   A   A
   private
   Swimming pool,              P    P   P   P
   public




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 381
   Tower or antenna             C                    C              C           C
   structure, commercial
   Tower or antenna             A                    A              A           A
   structure, private
   Transit facility             C                    P              P           P
   Water tower                  P                    P              P           P
   Winery                       C                    C              C           C

 Note:
  1. Wells, potable water, and wastewater treatment facilities are required infrastructure
      considered in connection with the approval of the Dry Creek Ranch Zoning Ordinance and
      development plan. Accordingly, no conditional use review is required in connection with
      the construction of these facilities. Administrative, staff- level review of site plans
      associated with such facilities will be required at the time of building permit.

 TABLE 8-13C-6B
 ALLOWABLE USES IN THE DRY CREEK RANCH LAND USE DISTRICTS
 Principal permitted (P); accessory (A); conditional (C); or prohibited (-) use

          Use           Mixed       Village   Park   Natural   Institutional/         Commercial
                         Use        Center            Open      School Site
                                                      Space

   Accessory            A           A         A      A         A                  A
   structure
   Active adult         P           P         -      -         -                  -
   community
   Agricultural         A           A         P      -         A                  A
   structure
   Agricultural use     P           P         P      -         -                  -


   Amusement or         C           P         -      -         -                  P
   recreation
   facility, indoor

   Amusement or         C           P         P      -         P                  C
   recreation
   facility, outdoor




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 382
   Animal             C    C     -   -   -   P
   boarding with
   outside runs

   Animal clinic,     P    P     -   -   -   P
   animal hospital
   or veterinary
   office


   Automobile,        C    -     -   -   -   C
   major repair
   Bar, brew pub      P    P     -   -   -   P
   or nightclub
   Bed and            P    C     -   -   -   P
   breakfast
   establishment

   Brewery or         P    P     -   -   -   P
   distillery
   Business park      C    -     -   -   C   P
   Car wash           A1   -     -   -   -   P
   Church or          P    P     -   -   C   P
   place of
   worship

   Clinic, medical    P    P     -   -   -   P
   Club, lodge or     P    P     C   -   C   P
   social hall
   Community          P    P     P   -   -   P
   center
   Community          P    P     P   -   C   P
   information
   center

   Daycare facility   P    P     -   -   -   P
   (12 or more
   children)

   Daycare home,      A    A     -   -   -   A
   family (6 or
   fewer children)


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 383
   Daycare home,     A    A      -   -   -   A
   group (7 - 12
   children)

   Drive up          C    -      -   -   -   C
   window
   service

   Drugstore         P    -      -   -   -   P
   Duplex or         P    -      -   -   -   -
   single-family
   attached
   dwelling

   Dwelling,         A    -      -   -   -   -
   accessory
   Dwelling,         A    -      -   -   -   A
   caretaker of an
   approved use

   Dwelling,         P    P      -   -   -   P
   live/work
   Dwelling, loft    P    -      -   -   -   P
   Dwelling,         P    -      -   -   -   C
   multi-family
   Dwelling,         A    -      -   -   -   A
   secondary
   attached or
   detached

   Dwelling,         P    -      -   -   -   -
   single family
   attached

   Dwelling,         P    -      -   -   -   -
   single-family
   detached

   Farm, garden,     C    C      -   -   -   P
   lumber, or
   building supply
   store




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 384
   Fence, open         A   A     A   A   A   A
   (no barbed
   wire)

   Fence, solid        A   A     A   A   A   A
   Gasoline or         C   -     -   -   -   P
   diesel fuel
   sales facility

   Health club         P   P     -   -   -   P
   facility
   Home                A   A     -   -   -   -
   occupation,
   large

   Home                A   A     -   -   -   -
   occupation,
   small

   Hospital            P   -     -   -   -   P
   Hospital, large     C   -     -   -   -   P
   animal
   Hospital, small     P   -     -   -   -   P
   animal
   Hotel or motel      C   -     -   -   -   P
   Intermediate        P   -     -   -   -   P
   care facility
   Kennel,             P   -     -   -   -   P
   commercial
   Kennel, hobby       A   -     -   -   -   -
   Large animal        P   -     -   -   -   P
   grooming
   Laundromat          P   -     -   -   -   P
   Model home          P   -     -   -   -   P
   Nursery,            P   P     -   -   -   P
   wholesale or
   retail

   Nursing facility,   P   -     -   -   -   P
   skilled


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 385
   Off-street         P   P      P   P   P   P
   parking facility
   Office, related    A   A      -   -   A   A
   to an approved
   use

   Office,            P   P      -   -   A   P
   temporary
   construction

   Outdoor            P   P      -   -   A   P
   storage
   Package and        P   P      -   -   -   P
   letter delivery
   service

   Personal,          P   P      -   -   -   P
   business or
   professional
   services

   Portable           -   -      -   -   A   -
   classroom
   Public or quasi-   P   P      P   C   P   P
   public use
   Radio and          C   -      -   -   -   C
   television
   broadcast
   station

   Recycling          C   -      -   -   -   P
   center
   Research and       P   -      -   -   -   P
   development
   facility

   Residential        P   -      -   -   -   C
   care facility
   Restaurant or      P   P      -   -   -   P
   eating place
   Restaurant,        P   P      -   -   -   P
   outdoor


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 386
   Retail sales       A   A      -   -   -   A
   relating to an
   approved use

   Retail store       P   P      -   -   -   P
   School, public     P   -      -   -   P   P
   or private
   School,            P   -      -   -   P   P
   university
   School,            P   -      -   -   P   P
   vocational or
   trade

   Shopping           P   P      -   -   -   P
   center,
   convenience
   commercial

   Shopping center,   P   P      -   -   -   P
   neighborhood
   commercial


   Signs, non-        C   C      -   -   C   P
   accessory, off
   premises

   Small animal       P   P      -   -   -   P
   grooming
   Stable,            P   -      -   -   P   P
   boarding
   Stable or riding   P   P      -   -   P   P
   arena,
   commercial

   Stable, private    P   -      -   -   P   P
   Storage            P   -      -   -   P   P
   facility, self
   service

   Studio             P   -      -   -   -   P
   Swimming           A   A      A   -   A   A
   pool, private


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 387
   Swimming            P          P           P       -          P                  P
   pool, public
   Tower or            C          C           C       C          C                  C
   antenna
   structure,
   commercial

   Tower or            A          A           -       -          A                  A
   antenna
   structure,
   private

   Transit facility    P          P           P       -          P                  P
   Water tower         P          P           P       P          P                  P
   Winery              P          P           -       -          -                  P

Note:
   1. Accessory to gasoline or diesel fuel sales facility.

8-13C-7:        Administrative Regulations
   A. Principal permitted uses shall be reviewed in accordance with the specific use standards in
      Chapter 5 of this Title and Section 8-13C-8 of this Article; the master site plan standards
      of 8-6-19 of this Title, unless specifically exempt under subsection 8-6-19B.2 of this Title;
      and with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   B. Accessory uses shall be reviewed in accordance with the procedures in Chapter 6 of this
      Title; the specific use standards in Chapter 4 of this Title and Section 8-13C-8 of this
      Article; the accessory use regulations of Chapter 4 of this Title and table 8-13C-71 of this
      Section; and with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   C. Conditional uses shall be approved in accordance with the procedures in Chapter 6 of this
      Title; the specific use standards in Chapter 4 of this Title and Section 8-13C-8 of this
      Article; the conditional use regulations of 8-6-15 of this Title; and with the Dry Creek
      Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   D. The development of any allowable use within the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community
      requires a zoning certificate in accordance with Sections 8-6-32 of this Title. A zoning
      certificate will not be issued until such time as the applicant has provided to the County a
      design review letter issued by the Dry Creek Ranch Design Review Committee (DRC)
      stating that the plan complies with the design guidelines of the Dry Creek Ranch
      Comprehensive Plan. Ada County may issue a zoning certificate if the DRC fails to respond
      to an application within a reasonable period of time.
   E. Prior to approval of any preliminary plat for Dry Creek Ranch, the Board must find that
      the plat is in accordance with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 388
   F. Building permits and grading permits shall be issued in accordance with Ada County
      Building Code; provided however, that no building or grading permit shall be issued to an
      applicant until such time as the applicant has provided to the County: 1) a design review
      letter issued by the Dry Creek Ranch Design Review Committee recommending approval,
      denial, or conditional approval, of the proposed building improvements and/or grading for
      which the building permit or grading permit is being sought.

  TABLE 8-13C-71
  ACCESSORY USES AND REQUIRED APPROVAL
      Accessory Use                   Required Approval
                                            Zoning                    Administrative Approval
                                           Certificate
   Accessory structure             Yes                          Yes
   (over 1,500 sq. ft.)
   Accessory structure             Yes                          No
   (under 1,500 sq. ft.)
   Car wash                        Yes                          Yes
   Dwelling, accessory             Yes                          Yes
   Dwelling, secondary             Yes                          Yes
   attached or detached
   Fence, open (no barbed          No                           No
   wire)
   Fence, solid                    No                           No
   Home occupation, large          Yes                          Yes
   Home occupation, small          Yes                          No
   Tower or antenna structure,     Yes                          Yes
   private


Note:
          1.   This table supplements Section 8-6-11, table 8-2-23 of this Title.

8-13C-8:        Specific Use Standards
The purpose of this Section 8-13C-8 is to provide specific standards for all uses as set forth in
Section 8-13C-6, tables 8-13C-6A and 8-13C-6B of this Article that are not listed in Chapter 4 of
this Title or where the specific use standards differ from those standards found in Chapter 4 of this
Title. These standards are in addition to the requirements of Chapter 4 of this Title.
8-13C-8-1:      Amusement or Recreation Facility, Outdoor
   A. General Standards


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 389
      1. All structures or outdoor recreation areas shall maintain a minimum setback of twenty
         feet (20') from all abutting residential districts.
      2. Any outdoor speaker system associated with the amusement or recreation facility shall
         comply with the noise regulations of Section 5-13-3 of this Code.
      3. All outdoor activities and events shall be scheduled so as to complete all activity before
         or as near to nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. as practical. Illumination of the outdoor
         amusement or recreation facility shall not be permitted after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
         except to conclude a scheduled event that was in progress before ten o'clock (10:00)
         P.M. and circumstances prevented concluding before ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. All
         illumination shall be terminated no later than one (1) hour after conclusion of the event.
   B. Golf Driving Range. Accessory sales and rental of golf equipment shall be allowed. The
      golf driving range shall be designed to protect abutting property and roadways from golf
      balls.
   C. Swimming Pool. Any outdoor swimming pool shall be completely enclosed within a six-
      foot (6') barrier that meets the requirements of the Ada County Building Code as set forth
      in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code.
8-13C-8-2:    Bar, Brewpub, or Nightclub
   A. The facility shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding the sale,
      manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   B. The bar, brewpub, or nightclub shall not be located within five hundred feet (500') of a
      church or school property.
   C. For properties abutting a residential district, no outside activity or event shall be allowed
      on the site, except as provided for in 8-6-29, "Temporary Use," of this Title.
8-13C-8-3:    Bed and Breakfast Establishment
   A. The minimum property size for a bed and breakfast establishment shall be one-half (1/2)
      acre.
   B. Any such facility shall be an owner-occupied dwelling. For the purposes of this subsection,
      an "owner" shall be defined as a person with a fifty percent (50%) or greater interest in the
      bed and breakfast establishment.
   C. If remodeling an existing structure, the exterior appearance of the structure shall be that of
      a single-family dwelling. Fire escapes and other features may be added to protect public
      safety; however, structural alterations may not be made that would prevent future use of
      the structure as a single-family dwelling.
   D. No more than ten (10) occupants (including, but not limited to, the owner, the owner's
      family, and any resident or nonresident employees) shall be permitted to occupy the facility
      at any one (1) time (daytime, evening, or night).
   E. The maximum stay shall be two (2) weeks for any guest.
   F. Only business signs referring solely to a principal permitted use of the bed and breakfast
      are permitted.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 390
8-13C-8-4: Business Park
There are no additional standards for this specific use.
8-13C-8-5:     Car Wash
   A. All businesses providing self-service or drive-through car wash facilities shall identify the
      stacking lane and wash location on the master site plan.
   B. If within the Mixed-Use District, a car wash facility shall be allowed only as an accessory
      use to a gasoline or diesel fuel sales facility. The car wash facility shall be limited in
      capacity to a single vehicle.
   C. A one-hundred-foot (100') separation shall be maintained between any car wash facility
      and any residential district.
   D. Any outdoor speaker system associated with the car wash shall comply with the noise
      regulations of Section 5-13-3 of this Code.
   E. Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but outside the car wash facility
      entrance. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction of the public
      right- of-way by patrons. Such stacking lanes shall be separate from areas required for
      access and parking. The stacking lanes shall not be located within ten feet (10') of any
      residential district.
8-13C-8-6: Community Center
All structures shall meet the minimum required setbacks for the applicable land use district.
8-13C-8-7: Community Information Center
There are no additional standards for this specific use.
8-13C-8-8: Drugstore
The applicant or owner shall secure and maintain the proper license(s) from the State of Idaho.
8-13C-8-9:     Dwelling, Accessory
   A. An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) shall not be larger than twenty percent (20%) of the lot
      area and the ADU shall not have more than one (1) bedroom. Where practical, the twenty
      percent (20%) size standard may be altered to accommodate logical expansions or internal
      conversions. Examples of this include, but are not limited to, the addition of a second floor
      to a detached garage or the separation of a basement as an accessory unit.
   B. ADUs shall meet all of the dimensional requirements of the land use district and
      requirements of the Ada County Building Code as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this
      Code.
   C. The design of the ADU shall be compatible with the existing neighborhood by taking into
      account height, bulk, and site location, and incorporating materials, colors and a design
      motif that is compatible with and complements the architectural theme and style of the
      principal dwelling unit. The principal and the ADU shall be designed to portray the
      character of a single-family dwelling. Only one (1) entrance to the structure may be located
      on the front building elevation of the house unless multiple entrances are already in
      existence.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 391
   D. Off-street parking shall be provided as per Section 8-3-10 of this Title, in addition to the
      required off-street parking for the principal permitted dwelling. The driveway apron
      (driveway space within the front yard setback) may be utilized for this requirement.
   E. Input from adjacent property owners should be considered in the design and siting of an
      ADU in order to maintain privacy between adjacent housing units.
8-13C-8-10: Dwelling, Live/Work
   A. The living space shall contain at least four hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area.
   B. The living space shall include a bedroom, closet, bathroom and kitchen. The bedroom shall
      be for the exclusive use of the living space. All other spaces may be shared with the
      workspace.
   C. The live/work unit shall meet all of the requirements of the Ada County Building Code as
      set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code.
   D. A minimum of eighty (80) square feet of outdoor open space shall be provided for each
      living space. This requirement can be satisfied through porches, patios, decks, and/or yards.
      Required property setback, landscaping, entryway, and other access ways shall not count
      toward this requirement.
   E. Off-street parking shall be provided as per Section 8-3-10 of this Title, in addition to the
      required off-street parking for the dwelling.
   F. The commercial space activities shall be compatible with residential use with respect to
      noise, smoke, vibration, smell, electrical interference, and fire hazard; and may include
      such uses as professional services and offices; and the creation, display and sale of art,
      craftwork, jewelry, fabrication of cloth goods; and similar activities.
   G. The live/work unit shall comply with the design guidelines of the Dry Creek Ranch
      Comprehensive Plan.
   H. The design of the live/work unit shall be compatible with the existing neighborhood by
      taking into account height, bulk, and site location; and incorporating materials, colors and
      a design motif that is compatible with and complements the architectural theme and style
      of the vicinity.
8-13C-8-11: Fence, Open
   A. No fence, hedge, wall, latticework, or screen shall violate the "clear vision triangle"
      requirements at a street intersection.
   B. No fence, wall, latticework, or screen shall be erected over three feet (3') in height within
      the required front yard.
   C. No fence, wall, latticework, or screen on the perimeter boundary or within any required
      setback area shall exceed a height of six feet (6'), unless approved by a variance by the
      Board or as part of an approved use.
   D. Where any fence or wall is required by this Title to protect adjacent properties, said fence
      or wall shall be kept free from advertising and graffiti and maintained in good repair.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 392
8-13C-8-12: Fence, Solid
   A. No sight-obscuring fence, hedge, wall, latticework, or screen shall violate the "clear vision
      triangle" requirements at a street intersection.
   B. No fence, wall, latticework, or screen shall be erected over three feet (3') in height within
      the required front yard.
   C. No fence, wall, latticework, or screen on the perimeter boundary or within any required
      setback area shall exceed a height of six feet (6'), unless approved by a variance by the
      Board or as part of an approved use.
   D. Where any sight-obscuring fence or wall is required by this Title to protect adjacent
      properties, said fence or wall shall be kept free from advertising and graffiti and maintained
      in good repair.
8-13C-8-13: Health Club Facility
The facility shall comply with all County and State regulations relative to such use.
8-13C-8-14: Hospital
   A. The use shall have frontage on an arterial or collector street.
   B. Accessory retail uses including, but not limited to, retail shops, food or beverage service,
      and personal service shops, may be allowed if designed to serve patrons of the hospital and
      their visitors only.
   C. The use shall comply with the Flood Hazard Overlay District as set forth in 8-2-28 of this
      Title.
8-13C-8-15: Hospital, Large Animal
The facility shall comply with all County and State regulations relative to such use.
8-13C-8-16: Hospital, Small Animal
The facility shall comply with all County and State regulations relative to such use.
8-13C-8-17: Public or Quasi-Public Use
   A. Minimum Setbacks; Compatibility. All structures shall meet the minimum required
      setbacks for the applicable base district, except within a residential district where there
      shall be a minimum setback of thirty-five feet (35') from any public street and twenty-five
      feet (25') from any other property line. Structures shall be designed and constructed to be
      compatible with the surrounding properties.
   B. Public Recreation Facilities. The standards as set forth for amusement and recreation
      facilities shall apply for all public recreation facilities.
   C. Storm Drainage and Storm Detention Facilities. A storm drainage facility and/or storm
      detention facility that are an accessory use to a roadway on the same property shall be
      exempt. For the purposes of this standard, the contiguous parcel regulations of Section 8-
      3-2D of this Title shall not apply.
   D. Underground Utilities. Underground utilities within an easement or within a public street


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 393
       right-of-way shall not require additional approval.
   E. Power Distribution Facilities.
       1. Electric distribution lines shall be principal permitted uses. Master site plan approval
          is not required.
       2. Electric sub-transmission lines shall be principal permitted uses. Master site plan
          approval shall be required.
       3. Electric transmission lines and substations shall require conditional use approval.
       4. All electric transmission, sub-transmission, and distribution line rights-of- way shall be
          exempt from the landscaping regulations 8-3-7 of this Title.
       5. Electric substations and other utility structures shall be deemed outdoor storage areas
          and shall meet the standards in Section 8-4-49 of this Title.
       6. Towers for the purpose of communicating from the substation to remote devices shall
          be deemed an accessory use to an approved substation, provided that the pole and
          antenna are no taller than the existing towers.
       7. All wire fences, metal structures, and metal objects shall be grounded as required by
          Section 8-3-2O of this Title.
8-13C-8-18: Restaurant or Eating Place
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-19: Restaurant, Outdoor
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-20: Retail, Lifestyle Center
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-21: Retail Sales, Retailing to an Approved Use
Accessory retail sales shall be allowed for an approved commercial use. The area devoted to retail
sales shall not occupy more than forty percent (40%) of the gross floor area of the approved use.
8-13C-8-22: School, Public or Private
   A. Locations for public school sites shall be determined in conformance with the Dry Creek
      Ranch Land Use Map. The following location criteria shall apply unless in conflict with
      the applicable comprehensive plan:
       1. Elementary schools shall take access off a public street, unless otherwise approved by
          the applicable school district and ACHD.
       2. No school shall be located in a floodplain or adjacent to a hazardous land use.
   B. All structures shall meet the minimum setbacks of the Institutional/School Site Land Use
      District.
   C. Accessory uses including, but not limited to, daycare centers, community services, social
      services, meeting facilities for clubs and organizations, and administrative offices for the
      individual school facility may be allowed.
8-13C-8-23: School, Vocational or Trade


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 394
No vocational or trade school shall be located in a floodplain or adjacent to a hazardous land use.
8-13C-8-24: School, University
No university school shall be located in a floodplain or adjacent to a hazardous land use.
8-13C-8-25: Shopping Center, Community Commercial
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-26: Shopping Center, Convenience Commercial
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-27: Shopping Center, Neighborhood Commercial
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-28: Shopping Center, Regional Commercial
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-29: Stable, Private
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-30: Water Tower
No additional standards are required for this specific use.
8-13C-8-31: Winery
   A. The facility shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding the sale,
      manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   B. The winery shall not be located within five hundred feet (500') of a church or school
      property.
   C. For properties abutting a residential district, no outside activity or event shall be allowed
      on the site, except as provided for in 8-4-73, "Temporary Uses," of this Title.
8-13C-9:       Open Space
   A. Purpose. The purpose of this Article is to encourage well- designed open space within the
      Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community and to provide standards for dedicated open space
      areas as specified in the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan and/or uses approved as
      part of a development application.
   B. Applicability. The following regulations shall apply to open space lots created within the
      Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community.
   C. General Regulations
       1. Plat Approval: In approving each preliminary plat within Dry Creek Ranch, the Board
          shall determine that the plat is in accordance with the open space plan as was approved
          with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan with consideration of the flexibility
          provisions of this Article and the plan.
       2. Allowed Open Space Uses: Allowable uses on lands designated as in the "Park District"
          or "Natural Open Space District" shall include the uses set forth in Section 8-13C-6,
          table 8-13C-6B of this Article.
       3. Restrictions For Permanent Open Space: All open space lots in the "Park District" or
          "Natural Open Space District" shall be dedicated open space protected by either a deed

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 395
        restriction or a conservation easement prepared subject to the regulations of Idaho Code
        Section 55-2105.
  D. Design Standards. The provision, development and use of open space shall be in
     conformance with this Article and the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
     1. Consistency. The design shall be consistent with the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive
        Plan.
     2. Accessibility. The dedicated open space shall be easily accessible to residents of Dry
        Creek Ranch as deemed appropriate by the Dry Creek Ranch Wildlife Management
        Plan.
     3. Roadways. The number of private or public roadways that divide the dedicated open
        space shall be limited to those necessary for proper traffic circulation, and the roadways
        shall not detract from the efficient use of the open space.
     4. Structures. The dedicated open space shall be free of all structures, except those that
        enhance the use of the dedicated open space including, but not limited to: structures
        related to outdoor recreational use; structures of historic and/or cultural significance,
        educational buildings; way-finding or informational signage; parking facilities; well
        houses; and utility infrastructure and facilities.
     5. Stormwater Basins. Stormwater retention or detention basins designed and approved
        as part of the stormwater management system for the property may be located within
        the dedicated open space.
     6. Impervious Surface. Please see Section 8-13C-5, table 8-13C-5D of this Article for
        maximum coverage for impervious surfaces per land use district.
     7. Additional Standards for Open Space in the "Park District" or "Natural Open
        Space District"
        a. Width. The dedicated open space shall be an appropriate width as determined by
           the Director and may include natural open space, a trail system, pathway network,
           greenways, parkways, pocket parks, recreational fields or pocket parks for active
           or passive recreational use or linear open spaces.
        b. Neighboring Properties. The dedicated open space shall be connected to open
           space areas on neighboring properties wherever possible including provisions for
           pedestrian walkways to create linked walkway or pathway systems.
        c. Parking Spaces. The dedicated open space shall have the required number of
           automobile and bicycle parking spaces as set forth in this Title.
            1. Parking areas shall have safe and convenient access from an abutting public
               street or other rights-of-way or easements capable of accommodating
               pedestrian, bicycle, or vehicle traffic.
            2. Required parking areas for outdoor amusement or recreation facilities may be
               included in calculating the amount of dedicated open space.
        d. Alternative Open Space Plan. Following recommendations from the DRC, the
           Director may approve, or recommend approval of, an alternative open space plan


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 396
              when the overall design as proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the
              requirements of this Article and the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan and
              shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare.
8-13C-10:       Sign Requirements
Signs are allowed throughout the Dry Creek Ranch Planned Community and shall be in
conformance with this Article, the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan, and the provisions of
8-3-12 of this Title.
8-13C-11:      On and Off-Street Parking
All parking shall meet Federal Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements and shall be
in accordance with the provisions of 8-3-10 of this Title, except as follows:
   A. Improvements
       1. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, all off-street parking areas shall be
          improved as an approved pavement design and parking layout prepared by a licensed
          civil engineer in the State of Idaho. This standard shall not apply to temporary uses, the
          education center, or temporary construction offices.
       2. When a bumper overhangs onto a landscape area, with properly designed ground
          coverage or lawn area, the parking stall dimensions may be reduced two feet (2') in
          length. If parking is adjacent to the sidewalk, the parking dimensions may also be
          reduced by two feet (2') in length if the width of the sidewalk is increased by two feet
          (2').
       3. Parking spaces and access lanes shall be marked including handicapped symbols and
          signs per ADA and the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices standards.
       4. All lighting provided to illuminate a parking area shall comply with the lighting
          standards provided in 8-3-8 of this Title and the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
   B. Alternative Plan
       1. Following recommendation from the DRC, the Director may approve, or recommend
          approval of, an alternative off-street parking and loading plan, when the overall design,
          as proposed by the applicant, meets or exceeds the intent and the requirements of this
          Article and shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare.
   C. Required Number of Off-Street Parking. See Section 8-3-10 of this Title. The required
      parking for clubs, lodges and social halls may be provided by on-street parking located
      within one-eighth (1/8) mile of the lot on which the club, lodge, or social hall is located.
8-13C-12:     Standards for Energy and Water Conservation
   A. Development standards for energy and water conservation shall be consistent with the Dry
      Creek Ranch Design Guidelines, as located within the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive
      Plan.
   B. Energy Conservation: All new construction shall meet or exceed the requirements of the
      Energy Conservation Code as set forth in Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code.
   C. Water Conservation: All landscaping shall comply with the water conservation
      requirements of Section 8-13C-17 of this Article.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 397
8-13C-13:      Grading Requirements
All grading shall be in conformance with this Article and Title 7, Chapter 2, "Building Codes," of
this Code. Grading on slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%) shall comply with 8-2-30 of this
Chapter.
8-13C-14:      Design Standards for Structures and Site Improvements
The design standards for structures and site improvements shall be in conformance with this
Article and the Dry Creek Ranch Comprehensive Plan.
8-13C-15:      Frontage and Access
Development shall only be approved on a property that meets the minimum dimensional standards
of Section 8-13C-5, table 8-13C-5D of this Article. Access shall be taken from the required
frontage unless the property also has frontage on an alley, an approved private road, or an approved
common driveway.
   A. Alleys
       1. Alleys may be permitted in all land use districts within the Dry Creek Ranch Planned
          Community.
       2. The width of an alley shall typically be twenty feet (20') but shall not be less than
          sixteen feet (16') and shall be paved.
       3. Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment should be avoided, but where
          necessary, corners will be cut off sufficiently to permit safe vehicular movement.
       4. Dead-end alleys shall be permitted, with written approval from the applicable fire
          district.
       5. Alleys may count as required lot frontage in all residential zones.
       6. Alleys may be public or private. If private, the alley must be owned and maintained by
          the Dry Creek Ranch Property Owners' Association.
       7. An alley may intersect an alley.
       8. An alley may curve and/or turn.
   B. Common Driveways
       1. Common driveways may be permitted in all land use districts within the Dry Creek
          Ranch Planned Community.
       2. A three foot (3') wide landscaped area shall be constructed and maintained between the
          common driveway and lots which do not utilize the common driveway.
       3. The street frontage requirement of each flag lot served by the common driveway may
          be reduced to five feet (5').
       4. All individual private driveways, on lots that are contiguous to the common driveway,
          shall originate from the common driveway, not the public street, unless existing site
          conditions preclude this design. On arterials and collector street, all lots or parcels
          within the subdivision that abut the lot or parcels that have reduced street frontage and
          contain the common driveway shall take access from the common driveway to
          minimize access points, unless the parking for an existing dwelling cannot be
          reasonably reconfigured to take access from the common driveway.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 398
       5. A perpetual ingress/egress easement and maintenance agreement shall be recorded and
          provided with the final plat application. The easement shall be delineated on the final
          plat or recorded by a separate document.
       6. The common driveway and all necessary support utilities shall be constructed
          concurrently with public improvements.
8-13C-16:        Easements
Easements shall be provided for utilities, drainage and irrigation outside of public street rights-of-
way as needed. The width of said easement will be determined by the land use and negotiated with
the entity(ies) responsible for the construction and/or maintenance of the utility.
8-13C-17:      Landscaping
   A. General Requirements
       1. All landscaping shall be in conformance with this Article, and the Dry Creek Ranch
          Comprehensive Plan.
       2. All landscape areas shall be served with an automatic underground irrigation system
          with the exception of those lots in the hillside portions of Dry Creek Ranch. The
          irrigation system shall comply with the following design criteria:
            a. The irrigation system shall be designed to provide appropriate spacing to avoid
               overspray onto impervious surfaces such as sidewalks, driveways, and parking
               areas.
            b. Sprinkler heads irrigating lawn or other high-water-demand areas shall be circuited
               so that they are on a separate zone or zones from those irrigating trees, shrubs, or
               other reduced- water-demand areas.
       3. All developed lots shall use low water and drought tolerant grasses and shrubs,
          including xeriscape where appropriate.
       4. Non-potable water shall be the first source of irrigation water for common area
          irrigation where available.
       5. All non-residential development shall be provided with a pressurized irrigation system.
       6. Landscape irrigation systems shall be designed to meet the needs of the plants in the
          landscape.
       7. Landscape irrigation systems shall be equipped with automatic controller with
          operational flexibility to adjust for seasonal water conservation and temporary water
          shortage restrictions.
       8. Landscape street buffer requirements shall be as follows:
            a. Abutting State Highway 55: Fifty feet (50');
            b. Abutting minor and major arterials: Thirty feet (30');
            c. Abutting collectors: Twenty feet (20').
       9. No final plat shall be approved until such time as the applicant has provided a landscape
          plan to Ada County, for review and approval. In addition to those standards set forth in
          8-3-7 of this Title, the landscape plan shall contain the following:

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 399
           a. The location, size, and type of all proposed landscaping materials (including
              specific references as to the species of plant materials), and verification that
              minimum landscaping requirements have been satisfied. All plants shall be shown
              at seventy five percent (75%) mature growth.
           b. Existing vegetation to be saved shall be identified on the landscaping plan along
              with protection measures to be used during grading and construction.
8-13C-18:   Amendments
Amendments to this Article shall be in accordance with 8-6-33 and/or 8-6-34 of this Title as
applicable.
Article D: Hidden Springs Planned Community
SECTION:
8-13D-1:               SHORT TITLE
8-13D-2:               DEFINITIONS
8-13D-3:               PURPOSE AND INTENT
8-13D-4:               APPLICABILITY
8-13D-5:               PERMITTED RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL USES
8-13D-6:               DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN GUIDELINES
8-13D-7:               ADMINISTRATIVE / OTHER REGULATIONS
8-13D-8:               AMENDMENTS
8-13D-9:               VISION STATEMENT
8-13D-10:              DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
8-13D-1:       Short Title
This Article shall be known, cited, and referred to as the HIDDEN SPRINGS PLANNED
COMMUNITY ZONING ORDINANCE.
8-13D-2:       Definitions
The following definitions shall be used in the interpretation and construction of the Hidden Springs
Planned Community Zoning Ordinance; words used in the present tense include the future; the
singular number shall include the plural and the plural the singular; the word "building" shall
include the word "structure," the word "used" shall include "arranged," "designed," "constructed,"
"altered," "converted," "rented," "leased," or "intended to be used," and the word "shall" is
mandatory and not directory. Any term used in this Article not defined herein, shall have the
meaning set forth in Chapter 10 of this Title. Any term not defined herein or in Chapter 10 of this
Title, shall have its plain and ordinary meaning.
ACCESSORY APARTMENT OR GUEST HOUSE: A fully functional living unit including a
kitchen, bathroom, etc., which may be rented for income, provide residence in barter for personal
services, or accommodate a family member who wishes to live in a separate structure on the same
lot.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use, building or structure that is customarily incidental
and subordinate to the principal permitted use or approved administrative permit use, and is
conducted or located upon the same lot.
ADMINISTRATIVE: Pertaining to the performance of executive duties or directing the execution,
application or conduct of duties of an office, business, or institution.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 400
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT: A permit issued by the Director for administrative permit uses
specified in subsection 8-13D-7 of this Article.
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT USE: A use or occupancy of a structure, or a use of land, permitted
only upon issuance of an administrative permit and subject to the limitations and conditions
specified therein.
AFFECTED PERSON: Same meaning as is ascribed to such term by Idaho Code Section 67-6521,
as amended from time to time.
AGRICULTURAL COMMERCIAL OVERLAY: Those areas depicted upon the Hidden Springs
zoning map where agricultural commercial uses, as detailed in subsection 8-13D-5C2 of this
Article, are permitted.
AGRICULTURAL COMMERCIAL USE: Those principally permitted and administrative permit
agricultural commercial uses described in subsection 8-13D-5C2 of this Article.
AGRICULTURAL CONSERVATION AREA: That area depicted upon the Hidden Springs
master land use plan map.
AGRICULTURAL OUTBUILDINGS: Any building or structure which is used for storage or
shelter of farming materials, equipment, supplies, products, or animals.
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in
performing animal husbandry or horticultural services, including agricultural milling and
processing, harvesting, agricultural land preparation, irrigation and farm equipment sales and
service, veterinary services, boarding or training of horses, and agricultural produce stands.
AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL OPERATIONS: The growing of cultivated crops, fruit
trees, berry bushes, grazing, pasturage, raising of domestic livestock, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing of produce. The
operation of any accessory uses to agricultural purposes shall not include a commercial packing
facility, feedlot or stockyard, the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals,
a slaughterhouse, the operation of a fertilizer works, nor plants for the reduction of animal matter.
ALLEY: A public or private way affording only secondary means of access to abutting property
at the back or side of a property.
ANIMAL CLINIC OR VETERINARY OFFICE: Any building or portion thereof designed or used
for the care or treatment of cats, dogs, or other animals in which veterinary services including
clipping, bathing, boarding, and other services are rendered to dogs, cats and other small animals
and domestic pets. Small animal hospital or veterinary hospital is the same as a small animal or
veterinary clinic, the distinction being that in the case of an animal hospital there is a licensed
veterinarian on the premises.
APPLICANT: Any owner or person with a proprietary interest in real property within the
boundaries of the Hidden Springs Planned Community who submits any application under this
Article.
ARTICLE: This Hidden Springs Planned Community Zoning Ordinance.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building between the floor and ceiling which is partly below and
partly above grade, but so located that the vertical distance from grade to the floor below is less
than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling. A basement, when used for dwelling purposes,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 401
shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement, and as a half-story for purposes of
side yard determination.
BARN: Any structure used to house domestic livestock.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: A building where meals and/or lodging are
provided for compensation to three (3) or more persons, but not more than twelve (12) persons,
and who are not members of the householder's family.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Ada County, Idaho.
BOARD CHAIRMAN: Chairman of the Ada County Board of County Commissioners.
BOARDER: See definition of Roomers and Boarders.
BUILDING: Any structure securely affixed to the land, and having a roof supported by columns
or walls, and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or by walls in which
there are no communicating doors, windows, or openings, which is designed or intended for the
shelter, enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.
Building Coverage: The total allowable percentage of a lot that may be covered by a building or
buildings.
Building Envelope: Areas of land within which all site disturbances (construction of buildings,
sitework, etc.) shall be conducted.
Building Height: The vertical distance from the average contact ground level at the front wall of
the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof,
or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, or gambrel roofs.
Building Massing: The three-dimensional (3-D) bulk and scale of a building.
Building Site: The ground area of a building or group of buildings together with all open spaces
as required by this Article.
CAFE: See definition of Restaurant.
CLINIC: A building, other than a hospital, used by one or more licensed physicians, dentists, or
licensed health care professionals for the purpose of receiving and treating patients.
CLUB, LODGE OR SOCIAL HALL: The social use of a building or of any premises by a profit
or nonprofit association.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT OR CLUSTERING: Clustering of buildings, garages, and drives to
minimize site disruption and/or maximize open space. Clustering techniques may include, but are
not limited to, shared driveways, key or flag lots, and cul-de-sacs.
COMMERCIAL STABLE AND RIDING SCHOOLS: For profit stables and horse-riding schools.
COMMERCIAL USE: The purchase, sale or other transaction involving the handling or
disposition of any article, substance or commodity for livelihood or profit, or the ownership or
management of office buildings, offices, recreational or amusement enterprises or the maintenance
and use of offices by professions and trades rendering services including all advertising, events
and other activities associated with such commercial use.
COMMISSION: The Planning and Zoning Commission of Ada County, Idaho.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 402
COMMON AREAS: Those areas which are used, owned, or managed jointly by a group of
residences, businesses, or association(s). Common areas include, but are not limited to, open
spaces, parking areas, pathways, and parks.
COMMUNITY CENTER: That portion of Hidden Springs more particularly described in
subsection 8-13C-5C3 of this Article which is intended to include the recreational and community
service uses that will form the social hub of the community.
COMMUNITY EVENT: Any temporary event within Hidden Springs including, without
limitation, picnics, barbecues, holiday events and parties, dances, concerts, bike rides and races,
foot races and walks, auctions and sales, bazaars, sales or marketing events and harvest festivals
and events.
COMMUNITY EVENT, PRIVATE: Any event for or by Hidden Springs residents and/or owners
and their respective guests, in which participation is by invitation only and not by public
advertisements; provided however, all real estate sales and marketing events and activities
including, without limitation, model homes being advertised and open to the general public and
real estate "open houses" advertised to the general public, normal and customary educational,
religious and other activities conducted at schools and churches and commercial uses and activities
on the premises of commercial businesses advertised to the general public shall be classified as
private community events and not as public community events.
COMMUNITY EVENT, PUBLIC: Any event for the public at large which is advertised to the
general public other than private community events described above.
CONDOMINIUM: A condominium within Hidden Springs shall have the same meaning as set
forth in Idaho Code Section 55-101B, as the same is amended and modified from time to time, and
as further defined and described in the Idaho Condominium Property Act.
CONVALESCENT HOME: A home, place or institution licensed by the Idaho State Department
of Health and Welfare as a nursing home which operates or maintains facilities providing
convalescence or chronic care or both for a period in excess of twenty-four (24) consecutive hours
for three (3) or more patients not related by blood or marriage to the operator, said patients who
by reason of illness or infirmity are unable to properly care for themselves.
CORRAL: See definition of Paddock, Pasture or Corral.
COUNTY: Ada County, Idaho.
DEDICATION: The setting apart of land or interests in land for public use, charitable, religious,
or educational purposes, including the granting of any and all conservation easements.
DIRECTOR: The Ada County Director of Development Services or an authorized representative
thereof.
DOMESTIC LIVESTOCK: Horses, cattle, dairy animals, sheep, goats, and other grazing animals,
excluding swine. It shall also include rabbits and domestic birds, excluding chickens. Domestic
livestock also excludes such birds as are caged and housed inside the dwelling and are not raised
for commercial use.
DRAINAGE: The removal of excess waters from land by means of surface or subsurface conduits.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, other than a service station or truck stop,
which is designed to encourage or permit customers to receive services, obtain goods, or be


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 403
entertained, while remaining in their motor vehicles.
DUPLEX: A building of no more than two (2) stories in height designed for or used by two (2)
families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used as the residence or as separate
living quarters of one or more persons, but not including a tent, trailer or a room in a hotel, motel,
or bed and breakfast establishment.
DWELLING, MULTI FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed for or used by three (3)
or more families or housekeeping units.
DWELLING SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed for or used exclusively for residence
purposes by one family or housekeeping unit.
EASEMENT: A right to use, falling short of ownership, and usually for a certain stated purpose.
EMPLOYMENT CENTERS: The contemplated Hidden Springs employment facilities more
particularly described in subsection 8-13D-5C6 of this Article.
ENGINEER, COUNTY: That licensed professional engineer appointed by the Board.
EQUESTRIAN CENTER: The Hidden Springs equestrian facility more particularly described in
subsection 8-13D-5C4 of this Article.
ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES: As provided in the Ada County Comprehensive Plan these
shall include, but are not limited to, water systems, public safety services, wastewater collection
and treatment systems, storm water detention and drainage facilities and structures, public schools,
streets, roads, and open space.
FAR: Floor to Area Ratio.
FEMA: Federal Emergency Management Agency.
FAMILY: A person living alone, or two (2) or more persons living together as a single
housekeeping unit, in a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a bed and breakfast
establishment, boarding house, lodging house, motel or hotel.
FAMILY DAY CARE HOME: "Family day care home" shall have the same meaning as ascribed
to it in Idaho Code Section 39-1102, as amended from time to time.
FARM/RANCH LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 8-13C-5B1 of this
Article.
FLOOD PLAIN: In this Article, flood plain refers to the 100-year flood plain as defined by the
Federal Emergency Management Act ("FEMA"), and as otherwise defined in this Title.
FREESTANDING GARAGE OR STORAGE STRUCTURE: An enclosed building designed for
private storage or parking of noncommercial vehicles.
GRADE: The elevation of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the midpoint of any
exterior wall of a building or structure.
GRAIN STORAGE FACILITY: Any facility used to store any harvested crop.
GREENHOUSE: A building whose roof and sides are made largely of transparent or translucent
material and in which the temperature and humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of plants,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 404
for private use or public sale.
GROUP DAY CARE FACILITY: Group day care facility shall have the same meaning as ascribed
to it in Idaho Code Section 39-1102, as amended from time to time.
GUEST HOUSE: See definition of Accessory Apartment.
HEALTH CLUB FACILITY: Any facility providing exercise services to its customers.
HIDDEN SPRINGS DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE OR DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE:
That certain design review committee (DRC) referenced in the design guidelines approved as a
part of the Hidden Springs Specific Plan.
HIDDEN SPRINGS GREENWAY: That area adjacent to Dry Creek, which is dedicated to, and
for the use of the public.
HIDDEN SPRINGS HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: The Idaho nonprofit or profit
corporation whose members or stockholders consist exclusively of property owners within Hidden
Springs and whose purpose is to provide for the administration and governance of the affairs of
Hidden Springs.
HIDDEN SPRINGS MASTER LAND USE PLAN: See definition of Master Land Use Plan.
HIDDEN SPRINGS OR HIDDEN SPRINGS PLANNED COMMUNITY: That area depicted on
the Hidden Springs Zoning Map, as amended from time to time.
HIDDEN SPRINGS SPECIFIC PLAN: The Hidden Springs Specific Plan consists of the goals,
objectives, policies, maps (such as sketch plan maps), development standards/administration
provisions and other components of the Hidden Springs application for a planned rural community
which have been adopted by the Board, and which shall serve as a guide for development. A copy
of the approved Hidden Springs Specific Plan is on file with the Ada County Development
Services Department.
HIDDEN SPRINGS ZONING MAP OR ZONING MAP: Map depicting the Hidden Springs
Planned Community boundary and the zoning districts and overlay districts within this boundary.
HOME OCCUPATION: An accessory use to a dwelling unit for gainful employment involving
the manufacture, provision, or sale of goods and/or services.
KENNEL: Any facility used for the boarding or training of domestic animals.
LARGE LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 8-13D-5B3 of this Article.
LODGE: See definition of Club, Lodge or Social Hall.
LOT: A parcel of land which meets any of the lot requirements of this Article for use, design and
dimensional standards and is for transfer of ownership or development, including, but not limited
to, condominiums. Such parcel of land may be developed if it complies with all applicable
provisions of this Article.
LOT, DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines. Where the
lot is irregular and the lot lines converge, the rear lot line shall be deemed to be a line at a point
where the side lot lines are not less than ten feet (10') apart.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The line separating the lot from the principal street on which it fronts. Lot
Line, Rear: The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 405
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. A side lot line separating a lot
from a street is also called a side street or flanking street lot line. A side lot line separating a lot
from another lot, or lots is also called an interior side lot line.
LOT, LINES: The property lines bounding the lot.
LOT, WIDTH: The mean width of the lot measured at right angles to its depth, provided however,
that the minimum lot width required in each district shall be measured at a distance from the front
line equal to the required least depth of the front yard.
MASTER DEVELOPER: Grossman Family Properties, or its assigns.
MASTER LAND USE PLAN: The Plan contained within the Hidden Springs Specific Plan which
depicts residential uses, nonresidential uses, and nonresidential overlays.
MEETING HALL: See definition of Community Center.
MODEL HOME: A single-family dwelling or a unit within a duplex or multi-family dwelling
which is shown to prospective buyers of lots or dwellings for the purpose of promoting the retail
sale of lots or dwellings within Hidden Springs.
NURSERY: Land and/or greenhouses used to raise flowers, shrubs, and plants, for private use or
public sale on site. The combined floor area for all structures used for retail sales may not exceed
two thousand (2,000) square feet.
OPEN SPACE: The area depicted on the Hidden Springs Master Land Use Plan as described in
subsection 8-13D-5C5 of this Article which shall remain open and free of development other than
wildlife habitat improvements, trails, other recreational improvements, and agricultural uses;
provided however, that changes in the boundaries of the open space are acceptable as long as the
total acreage of the open space does not decrease below eight hundred ten (810) acres.
PADDOCK, PASTURE OR CORRAL: A small enclosure near a stable where horses are
exercised.
PARCEL: A contiguous unit of land owned by, or recorded as, the property of the same person or
persons.
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: The division for conveyance of a lot or parcel of land
for the purpose of adjusting the boundary between parcels where: the dimensions of the parcels
are not reduced below the minimum dimensional standards for its applicable zone; there is no
increase in the original number of parcels; and, no easements, public streets, private streets or
publicly dedicated areas are affected. A parcel boundary adjustment shall not move or affect the
location of any platted lot line.
PARK AND RIDE FACILITY: Facility designed to allow Hidden Springs residents to park their
vehicles in order to carpool or ride in a van or bus to various locations throughout the Treasure
Valley, usually, however, to work.
PARKING AREA (PRIVATE): An open area, other than a street or public way, designed,
arranged, and made available for the storage of private passenger automobiles of occupants of the
building or buildings for which the parking area is developed and is necessary and accessory.
PARKING AREA OR LOT (PUBLIC): An open area, other than a street or public way, to be used
for the storage, for limited periods of time, of operable passenger automobiles and commercial


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 406
vehicles, and available to the public, whether for compensation, free, or as an accommodation to
clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: A usable space within a public or private parking area or a building of not
less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet, either within a structure or in the open for the
parking of motor vehicles.
PARKING STRUCTURE: A structure designed and used for vehicular parking and located near
the building which it serves.
PASTURE: See definition of Paddock, Pasture or Corral.
PERSONAL SERVICE: Retail oriented towards personal services.
PHASED DEVELOPMENT: Each individual phase of development as such phase is submitted
for preliminary plat and/or final plat approval.
PLAT, FINAL: The drawing, map or plan of a subdivision or other tract of land, or a replatting of
such, including certifications, descriptions and approvals and containing those elements and
requirements set forth in subsection 8-13D-6C2d of this Article.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plat of a subdivision containing the elements and
requirements set forth in subsection 8-13D-7C2a through 8-13D-7C2c of this Article.
PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USE: The main use of land or a building as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
PUBLIC AND COMMUNITY SUPPORT USES: Public and community support uses shall
include, without limitation, community centers, post office facilities, churches, schools, public
structures, recreational and health club facilities and day care facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A right of way open to the public.
PUBLIC STRUCTURE: Any structure designed for the benefit and use of the public.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, entity, or municipal department, duly authorized to furnish to the
public under public regulation, electricity, gas, steam, telephone, transportation, water, cable
television or other services.
PUBLIC UTILITY STRUCTURE: Any structure utilized by a public utility.
RANCH LOTS: See definition of Farm/Ranch Lots.
RECREATION FACILITY: A commercial or nonprofit swimming pool, park, fitness center,
public gathering place or other use designed for amusement or recreation.
REGULAR LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 8-13D-5B4 of this Article.
RESTAURANT: Any building, or part thereof, other than a bed and breakfast establishment,
where meals and/or beverages are provided for compensation, including, among others, such uses
as cafe, cafeteria, coffee shop, lunchroom, tearoom, soda shop and dining room.
RETAIL STORE: A store which sells commodities in small quantities to consumers, such as a
general store, hardware store, bookstore, etc.
ROAD: See definition of Street.
ROADSIDE STAND: A booth or stall temporarily located on a farm or other lot from which


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 407
produce, and farm products are sold to the general public.
ROOMERS OR BOARDERS: Persons paying remuneration for eating and sleeping within a
residence.
RURAL LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 8-13D-5B2 of this Article.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC OR PRIVATE: An institution of learning either publicly or privately
supported.
SERVICE STATION: A filling station or business enterprise using the premises primarily to sell
and supply motor fuel and lubricating oils and grease to on premises trade, including the sale of
tires, batteries, automotive accessories, together with other related services, including minor motor
vehicle repair. May also include convenience retail use, not to include a drive-in establishment.
SETBACK: The space on a lot required to be left open, either by the front, side, and rear yard
requirements of this Article, or by the delineation on a recorded plat map, or recorded covenants.
SHARED DRIVEWAYS: A twenty-foot (20') wide private shared access that serves no less than
two (2) nor more than four (4) single- family parcels or lots.
SIGN: Any structure or natural object, such as a tree, rock, bush and the ground itself, or part
thereof or device attached thereto or painted or represented thereon, which shall be used to attract
attention to any object, product, place, activity, person, institution, organization or business or
which shall display or include any letter, word, model, banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device or
representation used as, or which is in the nature of an announcement, direction or advertisement.
For the purpose of this definition, the word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of
any nation, state, city or other political unit, or any political, educational, charitable, philanthropic,
civic, professional, religious or like campaign, drive, movement or event.
SITE DISTURBANCE: Any change in the natural character of Hidden Springs as it exists at the
date of adoption of this Article, such as occurs during construction, landscaping, etc.
SKETCH PLAN: A less detailed development elaboration than a preliminary plat used in
conjunction with a preapplication conference as described in subsection 8-13D-6B of this Article.
A sketch plan may include maps, charts, goals, objectives, policies, and other information.
SLOPE: The number of feet rise or fall per one hundred feet (100') horizontal distance, divided by
one hundred (100) and expressed as a percentage.
SOCIAL HALL: See definition of Club, Lodge or Social Hall.
STABLE: A structure used or designed for the keeping, boarding, riding and/or care of horses.
STORAGE FACILITY OR STORAGE STRUCTURE: Any storage facility or structure used for
the storage or parking (long term or short term) of, without limitation, vehicles, agricultural and
recreational vehicles, boats and other watercraft, snowmobiles, equipment, and machinery.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the surface of
the floor above it, or if there is no floor above, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it. Any portion of a story exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be considered as
an additional story for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction thereof. If the finished floor level directly
above a basement or cellar is more than six feet (6') above grade, such basement or cellar shall be
considered a story.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 408
STREET: A public right of way officially accepted by the Ada County Highway District or other
appropriate government agency. The term "street" shall include "avenue," "drive," "circle," "road,"
"parkway," "boulevard," "highway," "thoroughfare," or any other similar term.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A dead end street provided with a turnaround at its terminus. Street,
Island: A block in a subdivision located in the street.
STREET, MAJOR: A major street is a thoroughfare that is or will be used for fast and/or heavy
traffic, when designated as such by the Ada County Highway District or Director.
STREET, PRIVATE: Any parcel of land used for a street, road, lane or way or similar designation,
which is not maintained by, or dedicated to the Ada County highway district or other appropriate
government agency and used exclusively for the benefit of private individuals or associations.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in the structural members of a building, such as
walls, columns, beams, or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent location on the ground,
or attachment to something having a permanent location on the ground, provided fences not
exceeding forty-eight inches (48") in height shall not be deemed a structure.
SUBDIVISION: A. Lot or Parcel Division: The division of a lot or parcel of land into two (2) or
more sublots or subparcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership, or for building development.
   A. Exceptions: The following divisions of land shall not constitute a subdivision:
       1. Parcel boundary adjustment as provided in this Article.
       2. A court decree dividing a lot or parcel of land into separate, distinct ownership in the
          distribution of property provided that such lot or parcel provides for proper access to
          streets as enunciated in this Title.
       3. The division of land as a result of condemnation, as defined and allowed in the Idaho
          Code.
       4. The expansion or acquisition of street rights of way by a public agency, in compliance
          with an adopted general development plan.
       5. A conveyance of raw land as contemplated in subsection 8-13D-4E of this Article.
SURVEYOR, COUNTY: That licensed professional land surveyor appointed by the Board to
check plats and monuments for compliance with platting and surveying laws, provide for
surveying monument records and make such surveys, descriptions, maps and plats as ordered by
the Board.
SWIMMING POOL: A receptacle for water or an artificial pool of water having a depth at any
point of more than two feet (2') intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein
of persons.
TAVERN OR LOUNGE: A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for consumption on the
premises, not including restaurants.
TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS: See definition of Accessory Apartment or Guesthouse.
TEMPORARY SALES OFFICE: That particular sales office(s), wherever located, used primarily
for the wholesale or retail sales of property or lots located within Hidden Springs.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 409
TOT LOTS: Any playground facility designed for use by children five (5) years of age and
younger.
TOWNHOME LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 8-13D-5B6 of this Article.
UNPLATTED PROPERTY USE: Those principally permitted and administrative permit uses
described in subsection 8-13D-5C7 of this Article.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designated, arranged, or intended, or for
which it is occupied or maintained, let, or leased.
UTILITIES: Facilities for service to and used by the public.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be transported or
drawn upon a public highway, excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
VILLAGE COMMERCIAL OVERLAY: Those areas depicted upon the Hidden Springs zoning
map where village commercial uses, as detailed in subsection 8-13D-5C1 of this Article, are
permitted.
VILLAGE COMMERCIAL USE: Those principally permitted and administrative permit use
village commercial uses described in subsection 8-13D-5C1 of this Article.
VILLAGE HOME LOTS: Lots as more particularly described in subsection 8-13D-5B5 of this
Article.
WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT SYSTEM: An installation which collects
and treats domestic wastewater and utilizes at a minimum subsurface disposal or effluent and
which conforms to the rules, regulations and adopted plans of the health authority.
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM: An approved water supply system which provides a domestic water
supply meeting local, state, and federal drinking water standards and fire flow requirements.
WILDLIFE AREA: An area specifically designated for wildlife and big game winter range.
8-13D-3:        Purpose and Intent
Generally, this Article is enacted with the purpose and intent of promoting, on behalf of the Hidden
Springs planned community, public health, safety, comfort and general welfare; to conserve and
control the population density and to facilitate adequate and economical provisions for public
improvements, all in accordance with the Hidden Springs specific plan for the desirable future
physical development of Hidden Springs; and to provide a method of administration, all as
authorized by the Ada County comprehensive plan, the Ada County Zoning Ordinance, the state
legislature, and the constitution of the state.
Specifically, the purpose and intent of this Article is to set forth the development standards and
administrative procedures for implementing the land use policies of the Hidden Springs specific
plan. Furthermore, it is the purpose of this Article to:
   A. Provide for the design of quality, mixed use development within the Hidden Springs
      planned community;
   B. Provide distinctive, efficient, and effective regulations to guide development in Hidden
      Springs;



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 410
   C. Encourage flexibility and creativity in Hidden Springs' design and development in order to
      respond to market demand and site-specific conditions while enhancing the economic
      viability and quality of Hidden Springs;
   D. Encourage creative and innovative land planning and design processes throughout Hidden
      Springs which are sensitive to existing environmental conditions;
   E. Provide for the integration and balance of a variety of uses in Hidden Springs;
   F. Establish responsibility for the development of essential public services throughout Hidden
      Springs and the specific mechanisms by which they will be provided, created, and financed;
   G. Provide for phased and orderly development of Hidden Springs utilizing consistent criteria;
   H. Provide flexibility for reconfiguration of residential and nonresidential uses and/or
      population density as long as these reconfigurations do not conflict with the overall intent
      of the Hidden Springs specific plan and this Article;
   I. Establish the permitted uses and minimum standards for each category of residential and
      nonresidential use;
   J. Identify and define standards for uses which may occur in each of the land use categories;
   K. Establish a review and approval process for the development of Hidden Springs.
8-13D-4:        Applicability
This Article governs the development and administration of the Hidden Springs planned
community, as shown on the Hidden Springs zoning map and the Hidden Springs master land use
plan. Where issues arise that are not covered under this Article, or where this Article specifically
references other sections of this code, such other sections of this code shall apply and govern. This
Article shall not apply to any land not incorporated within the Hidden Springs planned community
boundary.
   A. Scope and Content. This Article shall consist of the text hereof and the Hidden Springs
      zoning map, identified herewith, which zoning map is now filed in the office of the recorder
      of Ada County and in the Ada County development services department. For the purpose
      of administration and enforcement, the zoning map in the Ada County development
      services department shall be considered as an official zoning map. Any and all amendments
      to the Hidden Springs zoning map shall be made concurrently on the zoning map in the
      Ada County development services department and made concurrently with the amendment
      being recorded with the Ada County recorder.
       The approved Hidden Springs specific plan, as it may be amended, is now filed in the office
       of the Ada County development services department.
   B. Flexibility. The development standards and design guidelines contained in the Hidden
      Springs specific plan, including, without limitation, the master land use plan, and this
      Article are intended to depict the general nature and relative intensity of residential and
      nonresidential development in Hidden Springs, while allowing sufficient flexibility at the
      time of detailed planning and platting so that the overall goals and policies and purpose
      and intent of the Hidden Springs planned community can be achieved. The configuration
      and densities of development parcels and phases may be altered from those shown on the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 411
        Hidden Springs master land use plan to accommodate market, financing, site and other
        conditions and revisions to the project's implementation strategy providing that the
        reconfiguration does not conflict with the zoning map, specific restrictions contained
        within subsection 8-13D-5E of this Article, or the general intent of the Hidden Springs
        specific plan and this Article. Residential uses and density may also be transferred between
        development parcels as depicted on the master land use plan providing this transfer does
        not conflict with the zoning map, specific restrictions contained within subsection 8-13D-
        5E of this Article, or the general intent of the Hidden Springs specific plan and this Article.
        The responsibility for such interpretation shall rest with the Director.
   C. Conflict of Laws. In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Article shall
      be exclusive requirements under this code for development within Hidden Springs.
   D. Codification. This Article shall be codified in this code.
   E. Phased Development. This Article is intended to regulate all development and
      improvement of Hidden Springs but is not intended to regulate the bulk sale and
      conveyance of raw land to subdevelopers. Subdevelopers intending to develop land within
      Hidden Springs, or any portion thereof, are subject to the Hidden Springs specific plan and
      this Article.
   F. Changes To Hidden Springs Property Boundary. From time to time, the Hidden Springs
      property boundary may change due to additions of property into, or transfer of property out
      of, the Hidden Springs planned community. To the extent any maps or figures contained
      within this Article contain an outline of the boundary of the Hidden Springs planned
      community, such depiction shall be for illustrative purposes only.
   G. Since the adoption of the maps and acreages set forth in this Article, the County has
      approved the following applications adjusting the boundaries of the Hidden Springs
      planned community:
        1. File no. 05-17-PBA (Forsythe property boundary adjustment).
        2. Project no. 200700159-PBA (Rebecca Gillet property boundary adjustment).
        3. Project no. 20070208-2C-ZOA-PBA (removing 23 acres from Hidden Springs planned
           community boundary and adding the acres to the Cartwright Ranch planned
           community).
Notes
    1. See Section 8-13D-12 of this Article.
8-13D-5:       Permitted Residential and Nonresidential Uses
   A. Zoning
        1. Zoning Districts. For purposes of this Article, the Hidden Springs Planned Community
           is hereby divided into the following zoning districts and overlay districts as shown on
           the Zoning Map:




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 412
   Zoning Districts
         HS-R           Hidden Springs Residential Zone
         HS-V           Hidden Springs Village Zone
   Overlay Districts
         HS-VC          Hidden Springs Village Commercial
         HS-AC          Hidden Springs Agricultural Commercial
         HS-EC          Hidden Springs Employment Center

        2. Allowed Uses Within Zoning Districts. Within the zoning districts and overlay
           districts described above, the following uses shall be allowed:
           a. Hidden Springs Residential Zone (HS-R) Allowed Uses

  (1)               Farm/ranch lots                         (See subsection 8-13D-5B1)
  (2)               Rural lots                              (See subsection 8-13D-5B2)
  (3)               Large lots                              (See subsection 8-13D-5B3)
  (4)               Regular lots                            (See subsection 8-13D-5B4)
  (5)               Village home lots                       (See subsection 8-13D-5B5)
  (6)               Town home lots                          (See subsection 8-13D-5B6)
  (7)               Equestrian center                       (See subsection 8-13D-5C4)
  (8)               Open space/parks                        (See subsection 8-13D-5C5)
  (9)               Unplatted property use                  (See subsection 8-13D-5C7)
  (10)              Community event, private and            (See subsection 8-13D-7G)
                    public
  (11)              Essential public services               (See subsection 8-13D-2)

           b. Hidden Springs Village Zone (HS-V) Allowed Uses

  (1)            Regular lots                                     (See subsection 8-13D-5B4)
  (2)            Village home lots                                (See subsection 8-13D-5B5)
  (3)            Town home lots                                   (See subsection 8-13D-5B6)
  (4)            Community center/school                          (See subsection 8-13D-5C3)
  (5)            Open space/parks                                 (See subsection 8-13D-5C5)
  (6)            Unplatted property use                           (See subsection 8-13D-5C7)



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 413
  (7)             Community event, private and public                  (See subsection 8-13D-7G)
  (8)             Essential public services                            (See subsection 8-13D-2)

           c. Hidden Springs Village Commercial Overlay (HS-VC) Allowed Uses Those
              uses allowed pursuant to subsection 8-13D-5C1 of this Section.
           d. Hidden Springs Agricultural Commercial Overlay (HS-AC) Allowed Uses
              Those uses allowed pursuant to subsection 8-13D-5C2 of this Section.
           e. Hidden Springs Employment Center Overlay (HS-EC) Allowed Uses Those
              uses allowed pursuant to subsection 8-13D-5C6 of this Section and approved
              pursuant to the requirements of subsection 8-13D-7G of this Article.
        3. Purpose of Zoning Map and Master Land Use Plan. While the Zoning Map depicts
           the zoning districts' and overlay districts' boundaries within Hidden Springs, the Master
           Land Use Plan contained within the Specific Plan depicts the general nature and relative
           intensity of residential and nonresidential development and uses within these zoning
           districts and overlay districts subject to the appropriate flexibility and other standards
           discussed in subsection 8-13D-4B and elsewhere in this Article.
  B. Residential Uses. The following is a detailed description of all residential lots, including
     their principal permitted uses, accessory uses, administrative permit uses, prohibited uses,
     characteristics, standards, and special conditions.
        1. Farm/Ranch Lots




           a. Description. Farm/ranch lots are "agricultural style" lots adjacent to the
              agricultural operations or open space in the most visible portions of the Dry Creek
              Valley and adjoining hillsides. The lots are intended to provide unique residential
              experiences in conjunction with carefully controlled agricultural operations.
           b. Principal Permitted Uses
              Agricultural operations (farming, grazing and/or gardening) as defined herein.
              Family daycare home.
              Parks.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 414
           School.
           Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory structures.
           Temporary sales offices and model homes.
        c. Accessory Uses
           Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit). Agricultural outbuildings.
           Freestanding garages or storage structures. Home occupations.
           Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2). Swimming pools
           and tennis courts.
        d. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Bed and breakfast establishments.
           Clubs, lodges, and social halls.
           Nurseries, grain storage facilities and related agricultural structures.
           Public structures. Public utility structures.
           Roadside stands that sell agricultural products produced within the project.
           Shop for repair of personal machinery, equipment and vehicles used for agricultural
           purposes.
        e. Prohibited Uses
           All uses not specifically identified.
        f. Lot Characteristics
           1. Dimensions
              Minimum lot size: one and a half (1.5) acres.
              Minimum lot depth: one hundred fifty feet (150’).
              Minimum lot width: one hundred fifty feet (150’).
              Minimum lot frontage: one hundred feet (100’), (fifty feet 50’] for flag lots).
           2. Setbacks
              Front yard setback: thirty feet (30’).
              Side yard setback: three feet (3’) minimum from lot line. For corner lots,
              minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be twenty-three feet (23’).
              Rear yard setback: thirty feet (30’) or ten feet (10’) for garage.
           3. Buildings
              Maximum building height: thirty-five feet (35’).
              Maximum building coverage: fifteen percent (15%) of lot.
        g. Special Conditions
           1. Building Envelopes. Shall be designated on every farm/ranch lot. All site
              disturbance (construction of buildings, site work, etc.) shall be contained within
              this envelope.
           2. Garages. Shall be screened and/or not prominent or highly visible from
              adjoining street.
           3. Houses And Accessory Structures. Shall be sited to minimize grading and
              shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is limited to building
              envelopes or the area within lot setbacks, whichever is more constraining.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 415
           4. Building Massing. Shall step with the natural grade to minimize exposed
              building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two (2) stories plus roof.
              The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear of the lot.
           5. Floodplain. Significant portions of the farm lots located along the valley floor
              fall within the 100-year floodplain. Development of these lots shall comply with
              all FEMA and local floodplain regulations.
           6. Roadway. Farm/ranch lots fronting on Dry Creek Road or Cartwright Road
              shall set back buildings as far as possible from these main roadways. Additional
              techniques such as shared driveways, meandering driveways, rear entry
              garages, agricultural style buildings, barns, etc., shall be employed to maintain
              rural character along these roadways.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 416
ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 417
     2. Rural Lots




        a. Description. Rural lots are large lots intended to provide a transition from farm lots
           to the village homes in the village center. They also provide a large lot buffer
           between the village center and larger residential lots and agricultural uses which
           adjoin the project site. These lots are intended to provide a high degree of flexibility
           in transitioning from farm to village character.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 418
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           Family daycare home.
           Parks.
           School.
           Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory structures.
           Temporary sales offices and model homes.
        c. Accessory Uses
           Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
           Freestanding garages or storage structures.
           Hobby greenhouses.
           Home occupations.
           Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2). Swimming pools
           and tennis courts.
        d. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Bed and breakfast establishments.
           Clubs, lodges, and social halls.
           Public structures.
           Public utility structures.
           Roadside stands offering agricultural products produced within the project.
        e. Prohibited Uses
           All uses not specifically identified.
        f. Lot Characteristics
           1. Dimensions
              Minimum lot size: one and a half (1.5) acres.
              Minimum lot depth: one hundred fifty feet (150’).
              Minimum lot width: one hundred fifty feet (150’).
              Minimum lot frontage: one hundred feet (100’), (fifty feet [50'] for flag lots).
           2. Setbacks
              Front yard setback: thirty feet (30’).
              Side yard setback: three feet (3’) minimum from lot line. For corner lots,
              minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be twenty-three feet (23’).
              Rear yard setback: thirty feet (30’) or ten feet (10’) for garage.
           3. Buildings
              Maximum building height: thirty-five (35’) feet.
              Maximum building coverage: fifteen (15%) percent of lot.
        g. Special Conditions
           1. Building Envelopes. Shall be designated on every rural lot. All site disturbance
              (construction of buildings, site work, etc.) shall be contained within this
              envelope.
           2. Garages. Shall be screened and/or not prominent or highly visible from
              adjoining street.
           3. Houses and Accessory Structures. Shall be sited to minimize grading and

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 419
              shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is limited to building
              envelopes or the area within lot setbacks, whichever is more constraining.
           4. Twenty Foot Build to Street Edge. Rural lots fronting on Dry Creek Road or
              Seaman's Gulch Road are intended to provide a smooth transition from farm
              lots to village homes. Rural lots which directly front onto these main roads shall
              have their primary residential building located within five feet (5') of the front
              yard setback line to begin to establish the street "edge" near the village center.
              Rural lots away from the village center and/or off these main streets shall be set
              back farther and utilize techniques such as shared driveways, meandering
              driveways, rear entry garages, agricultural style buildings, barns, etc., to
              maintain rural character.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 420
ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 421
     3. Large Lots




        a. Description. Large lots are spacious lots generally intended to be developed on the
           moderately sloped hillsides within the project site. These lots vary in size and tend
           to be irregular in configuration in order to minimize visual impact and conform to
           existing topography.
        b. Principal Permitted Use
           Family daycare home.
           Parks.
           Schools.
           Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory structures.
           Temporary sales offices and model homes.
        c. Accessory Uses
           Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
           Freestanding garages or storage structures.
           Hobby greenhouses.
           Home occupations.
           Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2).
           Swimming pools and tennis courts.
        d. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Agricultural operations.
           Bed and breakfast establishments.
           Health club facilities.
           Public structures.
           Public utility structures.
           Roadside stands.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 422
        e. Prohibited Uses
           All uses not specifically identified.
        f. Lot Characteristics
           1. Dimensions
              Minimum lot size: one half (1/2) acre.
              Minimum lot depth: one hundred twenty feet (120’).
              Minimum lot width: one hundred feet (100’).
              Minimum lot frontage: fifty feet (50’), (thirty feet [30’] for flag lots).
           2. Setbacks
              Front yard setback: twenty feet (20’).
              Side yard setback: three feet (3’) minimum from lot line. For corner lots,
              minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be eighteen feet (18').
              Rear yard setback: twenty feet (20’) or ten feet (10’) for garage.
           3. Buildings
               Maximum building height: thirty-five feet (35’).
               Maximum building coverage: thirty percent (30%) of lot.
        g. Special Conditions
           1. Building Envelopes. Shall be designated on every large lot. All site disturbance
              (construction of buildings, site work, etc.) shall be contained within this
              envelope.
           2. Garages. Shall be side or rear entry. Garage doors shall not directly face the
              street.
           3. Houses And Accessory Structures. Shall be sited to minimize grading and
              shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is limited to building
              envelopes or the area within lot setbacks, whichever is more constraining.
           4. Sloped Banks. Facing the street shall not exceed a three to one (3:1) gradient.
              Slopes shall not exceed seven feet (7') in height without a horizontal terrace of
              a minimum depth of five feet (5').
           5. Building Massing. Shall step with the natural grade to minimize exposed
              building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two (2) stories plus roof.
              The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear of the lot.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 423
ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 424
     4. Regular Lots




        a. Description. Regular lots are generally intended to be developed in the relatively
           flat "coves" and "side valleys" which are not as visible as the main floor of Dry
           Creek Valley. These lots offer a more typical residential site size and configuration
           to meet the portion of the market which may not be attracted to the more unique lot
           types offered elsewhere in the project.
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           Family daycare home.
           Parks.
           Schools.
           Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and accessory structures.
           Temporary sales office and model homes.
        c. Accessory Uses
           Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
           Freestanding garages or storage structures. Hobby greenhouses.
           Home occupations.
           Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than 2).
           Swimming pools and tennis courts.
        d. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Agricultural operations.
           Bed and breakfast establishments.
           Health club facilities.
           Public structures.
           Public utility structures.
        e. Prohibited Uses
           All uses not specifically identified above.
        f. Lot Characteristics
           1. Dimensions

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 425
                Minimum lot size: twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
                Minimum lot depth: one hundred twenty feet (120’).
                Minimum lot width: one hundred feet (100’).
                Minimum lot frontage: fifty feet (50’), (thirty feet [30’] for flag lots).
             2. Setbacks
                Front yard setback: twenty feet (20’). For side entry garages, minimum front
                setback is ten feet (10’).
                Side yard setback: three feet (3’) minimum from lot line. For corner lots,
                minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be eighteen feet (18’).
                Rear yard setback: twenty feet (20’) or ten feet (10’) for garage.
             3. Buildings
                Maximum building height: thirty-five feet (35’).
                Maximum building coverage: forty-five percent (45%) of lot.
         g. Special Conditions
             1. Garages. Side or rear entry garages are encouraged where lot widths and depths
                permit. To encourage side entry garages, the front setback is ten feet (10') from
                the front property line. Where garage doors directly face the street, efforts shall
                be made to minimize their visual impact with architectural or site treatments.
             2. Houses and Accessory Structures. Shall be sited to minimize grading and
                shall be compatible with existing topography. Site grading is limited to building
                envelopes or the area within lot setbacks, whichever is more constraining.
             3. Building Massing. Shall step with the natural grade to minimize exposed
                building facade on the "downhill" portion of the lot to two (2) stories plus roof.
                The "downhill" portion may be either street side or rear of the lot.
             4. Clustering. Wherever site and access conditions permit clustering of buildings,
                garages and drives are encouraged to minimize site disruption and maximize
                open space. Clustering techniques may include shared driveways, key or flag
                lots, eyebrow cul-de-sacs, etc.




 Typical regular lot




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 426
   Clustering examples.

       5. Village Homes




Plan view illustrative of village lots.

           a. Description. Village home lots are smaller rural lots that are reminiscent of the "in
              town" lots traditionally found in Idaho's agricultural towns and villages. They are
              intended to provide a close-knit residential village with strong pedestrian and
              community orientation that is found in some of the great older neighborhoods of
              Boise (such as the North End).
           b. Principal Permitted Uses
              Family daycare home.
              Parks.
              Schools.
              Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory structures,
              including condominiums.
              Temporary sales offices and model homes.
              Townhomes (as defined in subsection B6 of this Section).
           c. Accessory Uses
              Accessory apartment (maximum 1 unit).
              Freestanding garages or storage structures.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 427
           Home occupations.
           Roomers or boarders with a resident family (not more than two [2]).
           Swimming pools.
           Tennis courts.
        d. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Agricultural operations.
           Bed and breakfast establishments.
           Health club facilities.
           Public structures.
           Public utility structures.
           Roadside stand.
        e. Prohibited Uses
           All uses not specifically identified.
        f. Lot Characteristics
           1. Dimensions
              Minimum lot size: three thousand two hundred (3,200) square feet.
              Minimum lot depth: eighty feet (80’).
              Minimum lot width: forty feet (40’), (sixty feet [60’] typical).
              Minimum lot frontage: thirty (30’) feet.
           2. Setbacks
              Front yard setback: ten feet (10’).
              Side yard setback: three feet (3’) minimum from lot line. For corner lots,
              minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be thirteen feet (13’).
              Rear yard setback: ten feet (10’), (zero feet (0’) for garage, accessory, or storage
              structure).
           3. Buildings
              Maximum building height: forty feet (40’).
              Maximum building coverage: seventy percent (70%) of lot.
        g. Special Conditions
           1. Garages. Rear entry garages off alleys or front entry garage structures located
              behind the main residential building are encouraged.
           2. Front Porches. Village homes are encouraged to provide usable front porches
              along the majority of their street side facades. These porches should receive
              special architectural treatment and be of sufficient depth and width to encourage
              use as an outdoor living space.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 428
Typical village lot layout.




                               Develop 10' build-to-street edge.




                          Garages shall be accessed from rear of lot.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 429
     6. Town Homes




           Plan view illustrative of town homes.
        a. Description. Town home lots are the densest residential product envisioned at
           Hidden Springs. The town home lots are generally intended to provide an
           alternative, attached-style unit which may appeal to seniors, empty-nesters, first-
           time buyers, and single parents who prefer an attached product with limited yard
           area. Town home lots are intended to be located in or within convenient walking
           distance of the town center.
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory structures,
           including condominiums.
           Duplex and multi-family dwellings of a permanent nature and their accessory
           structures, including condominiums.
           Temporary sales offices and model homes or units.
           Family day care home.
           Parks. Schools.
           Village homes (as defined in subsection 8-13D-5B5 of this Section).
        c. Accessory Uses
           Home occupations.
           Freestanding garages or storage structures.
           Temporary living quarters.
           Fitness and health facilities (for use by town home residents).
           Parking area or lot.
        d. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Public utility structures.
           Public structures.
           Bed and breakfast establishments.
           Individual swimming pools and tennis courts.
           Clubs, lodges and social halls.
           Agricultural operations.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 430
        e. Prohibited Uses
           All uses not specifically identified above.
        f. Lot Characteristics
           1. Dimensions
              a) Single-Family:
                 Minimum Lot Size: one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet.
                 Minimum Lot Depth: sixty (60’) feet.
                 Minimum Lot Width: twenty feet (20’). Minimum Lot Frontage: twenty feet
                 (20’).
           2. Setbacks
              Front Yard Setback: ten feet (10’).
              Side Yard Setback: zero feet (0’) minimum from lot line with ten feet (10’)
              minimum separation from adjoining buildings. For corner lots, minimum side
              yard setback from corner lot line shall be thirteen feet (13’).
              Rear Yard Setback: ten feet (10’), (zero feet (0’) for garage, accessory, or storage
              structure with alley).
           3. Buildings
              Maximum Building Height: forty feet (40’).
              Maximum Coverage: eighty-five percent (85%).
              Maximum Units Per Building: twelve (12).
              Parking: two (2) spaces per unit (includes garage spaces).
        g. Special Conditions
           1. Multi-Family or Attached Home Density. Shall be sixteen (16) DU/acre
              maximum.
           2. Buildings. Shall respect existing drainage patterns. Building massing must step
              with the natural grade.
           3. Surface Parking Areas. Shall be landscaped and terraced with the natural
              grade.
           4. Landscaped Outdoor Common Areas. Shall be incorporated into the site plan.
           5. Ground Floor Units. Are encouraged to have patios to provide a private
              outdoor space. Upper floor units are encouraged to have porches or balconies.
           6. Garages. Are encouraged to be incorporated into the building massing.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 431
ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 432
  C. Nonresidential Uses. The following is a detailed description of all nonresidential uses
     including principal permitted uses, administrative permit uses, accessory uses, prohibited
     uses, characteristics, standards, and special conditions.
     1. Village Commercial




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 433
        a. Description. The Village Commercial Overlay is generally intended to provide for
           neighborhood businesses that are compatible with the adjoining village home
           residential uses, and service the residents of Hidden Springs, Dry Creek Valley, and
           other nearby areas. The total cumulative commercial development in the Village
           Commercial Overlay shall not exceed fifty thousand (50,000) GSF of interior
           building area, (excluding public and community support uses), and only shall occur
           in the Hidden Springs Village Commercial Overlay (HS-VC) District.
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           Bank branch offices (including automated tellers) excluding drive-thru service.
           Clinics (medical or dental).
           Dry cleaning and laundering facility (provided actual dry cleaning is done off-site).
           Offices (business, professional, real estate, etc.).
           Personal service retail.
           Restaurants, cafes, confectioneries, or soda fountains (excluding drive-in
           establishments).
           Retail stores, (including general stores, hardware stores, bookstores, etc.).
           Guest houses and bed and breakfast establishments.
           Fire protection, law enforcement and emergency medical facilities.
           Group day care facility.
           Public or private parking area or lot. Park and ride facility.
           Health club facility.
           Parks.
           Storage facilities or storage structures.
        c. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Any commercial or retail use compatible with principal permitted uses.
           Clubs, lodges, or social halls.
           Places of public worship.
           Service stations.
           Taverns.
           Public utility structures.
           Public structures.
           Roadside stand.
        d. Prohibited Uses. All nonresidential uses not specifically identified.
        e. Minimum Standards
           1. Dimensions
              Minimum Lot Size: three thousand two hundred (3,200) square feet.
              Minimum Lot Depth: eighty feet (80’).
              Minimum Lot Width: forty feet (40’).
           2. Setbacks
              Front Yard Setback: zero feet (0’).
              Side Yard Setback: zero feet (0’) to adjoining commercial, ten feet (10’) to
              adjoining residential, ten feet (10’) for corner lots.
              Rear Yard Setback: ten feet (10’), (zero feet (0’) for freestanding garage or
              storage structure with alley).


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 434
           3. Buildings
              Maximum Building Height: forty feet (40’), (not including vertical elements of
              less than one hundred (100) square feet for community use facilities).
              Maximum Building Coverage: eight five percent (85%) of lot. Buildings may
              be developed as commercial condominiums.
        f. Special Conditions
           1. Parking. For village commercial uses shall be provided on- street or in rear
              yards adjacent to or behind the commercial buildings. Parking for the first one
              thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building area is assumed to be
              accommodated on-street within the village center, and off- street parking
              beyond the first one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building area shall
              be provided at a minimum of one space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
              interior building area. No front yard parking will be permitted.
           2. Loading Facilities. For commercial uses shall be thoroughly screened and
              buffered from adjoining residential uses.
           3. Village Commercial Buildings. Shall receive special architectural treatments
              to make them residential in scale, mass, and design and thus compatible with
              adjoining residential uses.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 435
     2. Agricultural Commercial




        a. Description. The Agricultural Commercial Overlay is generally intended to
           provide for agriculturally oriented and other businesses that are compatible with
           adjoining residential and agricultural land uses, and service the residents of Hidden
           Springs, Dry Creek Valley, as well as those of nearby areas. The total cumulative
           commercial development in the Agricultural Commercial Overlay shall not exceed
           fifty thousand (50,000) GSF of interior building area, (excluding public and
           community support uses) and shall only occur in the Hidden Springs Agricultural
           Commercial (HS-AC) District.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 436
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           Agricultural operations, including agricultural outbuildings.
           Roadside stands offering for sale agricultural products.
           Farm machinery sales (excluding repair).
           Feed, seed, and fertilizer stores.
           Other agriculturally related retail stores (including farm apparel, etc.).
           Retail store.
           Animal clinics and veterinary offices.
           Offices.
           Guest houses and bed and breakfast establishments.
           Group day care facility.
           Community centers.
           Schools.
           Parks.
           Health club facilities.
           Park and ride facility.
           Public or private parking area.
           Temporary sales offices.
           Temporary construction facilities.
        c. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Any commercial or retail use compatible with the principal permitted uses.
           Commercial greenhouses, nurseries.
           Grain storage structures.
           Places of public worship.
           Clubs, lodges, or social halls.
           Public utility structures.
           Public structures.
           Fire protection, law enforcement and emergency medical facilities.
           Storage facilities or storage structures.
        d. Prohibited Uses. All uses not specifically identified.
        e. Minimum Standards
           1. Dimensions
              Minimum Lot Size: one half (1/2) acre.
              Minimum Lot Depth: one hundred twenty feet (120’).
              Minimum Lot Width: one hundred feet (100’).
           2. Setbacks
              Front Yard Setback: twenty feet (20’).
              Side Yard Setback: twenty feet (20’) minimum from lot line. For corner lots,
              minimum side yard setback from corner lot line shall be thirty feet (30').
              Rear Yard Setback: twenty feet (20’).
           3. Buildings
              Maximum Building Height: forty-five feet (45’).
              Maximum Building Coverage: thirty percent (30%) of lot.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 437
        f. Special Conditions
           1. Building Envelopes. Shall be designated on all rural and farm lots underlying
              the Agricultural Commercial Overlay. Commercial buildings must be located
              within this envelope. Additional site disturbance shall be contained within this
              envelope except for a maximum of five thousand (5,000) square feet of
              additional disturbance which is permitted contiguous to, but outside the
              building envelope to accommodate parking for commercial uses.
           2. Parking. For agricultural commercial uses shall be provided either to the side
              or rear of commercial buildings. Parking for the first one thousand (1,000)
              square feet of interior building area is assumed to be accommodated on-street
              within the village center, and off-street parking beyond the first one thousand
              (1,000) square feet of interior building area shall be provided at a minimum of
              one space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building area. No
              front yard parking will be permitted.
           3. Loading Facilities. For commercial uses shall be thoroughly screened and
              buffered from adjoining residential uses.
           4. Architectural Treatments. Agricultural commercial uses near the town center
              shall receive architectural treatments that make them residential in scale, mass,
              and design, and compatible with adjoining residential uses.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 438
     3. Community Center/School




        a. Description. The community center is generally intended to include the recreational
           and community service uses that will form the social hub of the community and
           shall only occur in the Hidden Springs Village Zone (HS-V).
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           Public and private schools and accessory structures.
           Community center/meeting hall and accessory structures.
           Recreation facility and accessory structures.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 439
           Indoor and outdoor swimming pools and spas, and accessory structures.
           Tennis courts.
           Playfields and playgrounds/tot lots.
           Golf practice/putting facilities.
           Clubs, lodges, or social halls.
           Group day care facility.
           Health club facilities.
           Park and ride facilities.
           Public and private parking area.
        c. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Places of public worship.
           Restaurants and cafes.
           Public utility structures.
           Public structures.
           Agricultural operations.
        d. Prohibited Uses. All uses not specifically identified above.
        e. Minimum Standards
           1. Dimensions
              Minimum Lot Size: one and a half (1.5) acres.
              Minimum Lot Depth: one hundred fifty feet (150’).
              Minimum Lot Width: one hundred fifty feet (150’).
           2. Setbacks
              Front Yard Setback: twenty feet (20’).
              Side Yard Setback: twenty feet (20’) minimum. For corner lots, minimum side
              yard setback from corner lot line shall be thirty feet (30’).
              Rear Yard Setback: twenty feet (20’).
           3. Buildings
              Maximum Building Height: forty-five feet (45’).
              Maximum Building Coverage: fifty percent (50%) of lot.
        f. Special Conditions
           1. Parking. Parking for the first one thousand (1,000) square feet of indoor use
              area is assumed to be accommodated on-street within the village center, and
              off-street parking beyond the first one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior
              building area shall be provided at a minimum of one space per one thousand
              (1,000) square feet of interior building area.
           2. Loading Facilities. For the community center shall be thoroughly screened and
              buffered from adjoining residential uses.
           3. Building Massing. Is encouraged to be broken into a complex of smaller
              structures that are compatible in relative scale and size with adjoining
              residential uses.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 440
ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 441
     4. Equestrian Center




        a. Description. The equestrian center is generally intended to include equestrian uses
           and facilities to serve residents of the project who own and wish to board horses.
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           Animal clinic or veterinary office.
           Commercial stable and riding arena.
           Equestrian-related retail store.
           Office(s) and residence for operator/caretaker of equestrian facilities.
           Paddocks, pastures, and corrals.
           Public and private parking area.
           Restaurant, cafe.
        c. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Agricultural operations.
           Clubs, lodges, or social halls.
           Public structures.
           Public utility structures.
           Storage structures.
           Tavern.
        d. Prohibited Uses. All uses not specifically identified above.
        e. Minimum Standards
           Minimum Lot Size: two (2) acres.
           Minimum Lot Depth: None.
           Minimum Lot Width: None.
           Building setback: thirty feet (30’) from property or parcel boundary. Ten feet (10’)
           between paddock or corral fencing and property or parcel boundary.
           Maximum Building Height: forty-five feet (45’) with a special tower
           element of less than one hundred (100) square feet permitted to
           maximum of fifty feet (50’).
           Maximum Building Coverage: ten percent (10%) of lot.

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 442
           Parking Requirements: One off-street space for every four horses
           boarded on site; one space per on-duty employee/caretaker.
        f. Special Conditions
           Building shall be sited with respect to existing drainage patterns.
           Building massing and pastures shall step with the natural grade.
           Service, loading and maintenance facilities shall be completely
           screened from roads and residents.




     5. Open Space and Parks




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 443
        a. Description. Areas within the project designated as open space areas or parks are
           intended to provide both active and passive recreational opportunities as well as
           educational facilities, agricultural and wildlife areas. Open space areas include
           neighborhood and community parks, the Hidden Springs Greenway, the project-
           wide trail system, designated wildlife areas, and the agricultural conservation area
           in the valley floor.
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           A recreational facility (in a community park only) including a maximum of two
           thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet pavilion-type space.
           Park structures, gazebos, restrooms, and concession facilities.
           Playfields and playgrounds, tot lots, tennis courts, swimming pools, etc.
           Trails (pedestrian, bike, and equestrian).
           Agricultural outbuildings.
           Agricultural operations (farming, grazing and/or gardens).
           Schools, public or private.
           Park and ride facility.
           Public parking area (associated with open space or park use).
        c. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
           Public utility structures.
        d. Prohibited Uses. All uses not specifically identified.
        e. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit (which may only occur in the
           Agricultural Conservation Area)
           Nurseries.
        f. Minimum Standards
           Setback For Buildings/Fields/Play Equipment from All Lot Lines: Ten feet (10’).
           Maximum Building Height: 35 feet with special vertical element or landmark of
           less than one hundred (100) square feet (footprint) permitted to exceed 60 feet.
           Parking: None shall be required for park or open space areas; parking for other
           principal permitted uses or administrative permit uses shall be in accordance with
           this Title. Parking areas may serve multiple or joint uses while satisfying the
           parking requirements for only one of the multiple or joint uses in question.
        g. Special Conditions
           Trails and play fields shall be sited with respect to existing drainage patterns.
           Service and maintenance facilities shall be completely screened from adjacent uses.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 444
           Site lighting shall be low intensity and utilize cut- off luminaires to minimize glare
           and impacts to surrounding residential areas.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 445
     6. Employment Centers




        a. Description. The employment center overlay is intended to accommodate
           commercial, office and institutional uses which may be incorporated into one or
           more of four (4) relatively "hidden" side valleys or coves within the project site for
           the purpose of providing employment for residents of Hidden Springs and nearby
           areas and shall only occur in the Hidden Springs employment center overlay (HS-
           EC) district. All principal permitted uses set forth below shall be subject to the
           employment center approval process in subsection 8-13D-7G of this Article.
        b. Principal Permitted Uses
           Any use or building incidental to the employment center use that does not alter the
           overall character of the project.
           Convalescent home.
           Health club facility.
           High technology corporate headquarters and research facilities.
           Parking structures and covered parking.
           Parks.
           Private and public parking area.
           Public structures.
           Public utility structures.
           Spas and health retreats.
           University related research centers and cultural facilities.
           Other similar uses which are relatively self-contained and low in development
           intensity yet provide employment opportunities.
        c. Prohibited Uses
           Any use which does not meet the compatibility criteria described in subsection 8-
           13D-7G of this Article.
        d. Minimum Standards



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 446
     1. Density
        Maximum density: (0.30) FAR.
        Maximum building coverage: thirty percent (30%) of lot.
        Minimum open space: thirty percent (30%) of lot.
     2. Setbacks
        Front yard setback: fifty feet (50’), (ten feet (10’) for parking).
        Side yard setback: twenty feet (20’).
        Rear yard setback: zero feet (0’).
     3. Buildings
        Maximum building height: forty-five feet (45’).
        Maximum interior building area building: fifty thousand (50,000) square feet.
     4. Parking
        Minimum of one (1) space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of interior building
        area.
         e. Special Conditions
            Building envelopes shall be designated for all employment center uses and all
            buildings. Parking and site disturbance shall be contained within this envelope.
            Building should be sited with respect for existing site drainage patterns.
            Building massing shall step with natural grade.
            Surface parking areas should be terraced with natural grade and landscape screened
            from view of adjacent residents.
            Service and loading facilities shall be screened from view of adjacent residents.
     7. Unplatted Property
         a. Description. The unplatted property within Hidden Springs is that property which
            has not been platted. This area is intended to be used for its historic agricultural and
            other uses, as well as certain other uses which are in furtherance of the agricultural
            operations and goals and objectives of the Hidden Springs specific plan. It is the
            ultimate intent that all property within Hidden Springs be platted. Notwithstanding
            8-2-22 of this Title, any improvements associated with the uses specified below
            may be developed and constructed on any unplatted property within Hidden
            Springs. All uses of the unplatted property shall be consistent with this Article and
            the specific plan.
         b. Principal Permitted Uses
            Agricultural operations (farming, grazing and/or gardens).
            Agricultural outbuildings and crop storage facilities.
            Community events (public or private).
            Essential public services.
            Public utility structures.
            Temporary construction facilities.
            Temporary sales offices.
            Trails (pedestrian, bike, and equestrian).
         c. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit
            Playfields and playgrounds.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 447
             Schools.
         d. Uses Requiring an Administrative Permit (Which May Only Occur in the
            Agricultural Conservation Area)
            Nurseries.
         e. Prohibited Uses. All uses not specifically identified.
  D. Land Use Summary Table: Figure 8-13D-5D (land use summary table) of this Section is
     a summary of all residential and nonresidential uses and characteristics within the Hidden
     Springs planned community, including, principal permitted uses, accessory uses,
     administrative permit uses, prohibited uses, and lot characteristics.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 448
    Figure 8-13D-5D




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 449
   E. Specific Restrictions for the Phased Development of Hidden Springs:
       1. Total residential units shall not exceed one thousand thirty-five (1,035), excluding
          accessory use or employment center uses.
       2. Total village commercial use shall not exceed fifty thousand (50,000) gross square feet
          of interior building area, not including public and community support uses;
       3. Total agricultural commercial use shall not exceed fifty thousand (50,000) gross square
          feet of interior building area not including public and community support uses;
       4. The open space area depicted on the Hidden Springs master land use plan shall remain
          open and free of development other than wildlife habitat improvements, trails, and
          other recreational improvements, agriculture, and agricultural operations and
          outbuildings; provided however, that minor changes in the boundaries of the open space
          areas are acceptable as long as the total acreage of the open space areas does not
          decrease below eight hundred ten (810) acres. The Director shall be responsible for
          monitoring compliance with the foregoing specific restrictions. The Director shall
          develop and maintain a mechanism to ensure compliance with the specific restrictions
          set forth above.
8-13D-6:       Development and Design Guidelines
The specific development and design guidelines approved as a part of the Hidden Springs specific
plan are incorporated herein by this reference.

8-13D-7:      Administrative/Other Regulations
   A. Intent. The review and approval process established hereunder for the development of
      Hidden Springs planned community embodies the intent of the Hidden Springs specific
      plan and the Ada County Zoning Ordinance.
       It shall be the duty of the Director to administer the provisions of this Article for the
       development of Hidden Springs. The Director shall have the authority to interpret the
       provisions of this Article and make decisions on land use issues not specifically addressed
       by the Hidden Springs specific plan and/or this Article.
       No phase of Hidden Springs shall be approved unless essential public services for such
       phase, as specified in the Hidden Springs specific plan and this Article, are provided to
       support the phase as it proceeds.
       The Director, Commission, and/or Board, as the case may be, shall base their approvals or
       disapprovals upon compliance with the provisions of this Article and the goals and policies
       and purpose and intent of the Hidden Springs specific plan.
   B. Preapplication Conference. Any applicant seeking plat, accessory use, administrative
      permit use or employment center use approval, or any other application required pursuant
      to this Article may request a preapplication conference with the Director to clarify the
      requirements, standards and policies identified in this Article. The preapplication
      conference should be held as soon as is practicable after the request by the applicant. At
      this conference, the applicant may present sketch plans describing the general nature and
      intent of their proposed development. The purpose of the preapplication meeting is to
      determine whether the applicant’s proposed development is consistent with the intent of

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 450
     this Article. If deemed consistent, the applicant may proceed directly with preparation and
     submittal of an application. If the proposed development is deemed not clearly consistent
     or if significant issues are raised, the Director shall identify such issues in writing within
     ten (10) days of the conference and shall encourage the applicant to submit revised sketch
     plans and schedule another preapplication conference prior to formal submittal of an
     application. The Director shall furnish written comments and recommendations to assist
     the applicant in preparing the next submittal. The submission, review, and the Director's
     written comments and recommendations of any plat, accessory use, administrative permit
     use or employment center use shall in no way be interpreted as official approval or to mean
     that such review satisfies the requirements of the submission of a preliminary plat or
     approval of any other application. The Director's written comments and recommendations
     shall be nonbinding on the decision made by the Director, Commission and/or Board.
  C. Hidden Springs Subdivision Procedures
     1. Preliminary Plat and Final Plat Procedures. These regulations are adopted for the
        purpose of protecting property and furthering the health, safety, and general welfare of
        the people of Hidden Springs, and to provide uniform standards for the subdivision of
        land. Subject to subsection 8-13D-4E of this Article, these regulations shall apply to
        the subdivision of all land within Hidden Springs. It shall be unlawful hereafter to make
        a subdivision of land, as defined by this Article, or any part thereof, until plans therefor
        are submitted to the Director and recommended by the Commission and approved by
        the Board.
        a. Procedure for Preliminary Plat Approval by the Commission. Applications for
           a preliminary plat shall comply with the Hidden Springs specific plan and this
           Article. The procedure for approval of preliminary plats shall be as follows:
            1. An applicant shall file an application for approval of a preliminary plat showing
               proposed improvements and other supplementary material as required in
               subsection C2 of this Section. All persons submitting applications for a
               preliminary plat shall be required to submit to the Director an application upon
               the form(s) provided by the development services department and accompanied
               by an application fee as established in subsection 8-6-5 of this Title. No
               application shall be considered as accepted by the Director, nor shall the time
               limits hereinafter set out for action commence to run, unless it is complete with
               all the required information.
            2. An electronic submission of the preliminary plat application and all
               supplementary material shall be filed with the Director. All materials shall be
               collated.
                a. Upon receipt of the required application materials, the Director shall
                   transmit a copy of the application to applicable agencies or jurisdictions for
                   review and comments.
                   i.      Agencies to which the Director shall transmit applications include:
                        Central District Health Department
                        Ada County Engineer
                        Ada County Highway District


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 451
                       Appropriate city, if within an area of city impact as set forth in Title 9
                       of this code.
                 ii.   The Director may refer such applications to agencies that have a
                       jurisdictional interest. The Director shall maintain a list of agencies for
                       this purpose.
               b. Written recommendations and comments will be accepted up to the time of
                  the public hearing from various departments or agencies.
           3. Within the time given below the Commission shall act on the application:
               a. The Commission shall schedule and conduct a public hearing within forty
                  (40) days after acceptance of the preliminary plat application.
               b. The Commission shall make a written recommendation to the Board based
                  upon findings of fact and conclusions of law.
           4. The action of the Commission shall be noted on two (2) copies of the
              preliminary plat.
           5. Recommendation of approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval
              of the final plat; rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the
              layout and other information shown on the plat submitted.
        b. Procedure for Preliminary Plat Approval by the Board. Following the
           recommendation of the preliminary plat by the Commission, the preliminary plat
           shall be submitted to the Board for approval. The applicant shall have the right to
           seek simultaneous approval of the preliminary and final plats. The provisions of
           subsection C1d of this Section shall govern the procedure for this simultaneous
           approval. The applicant shall notify the Director of the intent for simultaneous
           submittal and submit the preliminary and final plats to comply with the time frame
           set forth in subsection C1b(2) of this Section. The procedure for approval by the
           Board of the preliminary plat shall be as follows:
           1. The preliminary plat submitted to the Board shall conform to the preliminary
              plat as recommended by the Commission.
           2. Within the time given below the Board shall act on the application:
               a. The Board shall schedule and conduct a public hearing within thirty (30)
                  days after receipt of the Commission's recommendation on the preliminary
                  plat application.
               b. The Board shall state its approval or denial in writing, based on findings of
                  fact and conclusions of law.
           3. The action of the Board shall be noted on two (2) copies of the preliminary plat.
              One copy shall be returned to the applicant and one copy retained by the
              Director.
           4. Approval of a preliminary plat shall not constitute approval of the final plat;
              rather, it shall be deemed an expression of approval of the layout and other
              information shown on the preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 452
               final plat.
           5. The term of approval of the preliminary plat by the Board shall not exceed
              twenty-four (24) months. Failure to submit an acceptable final plat within the
              twenty-four (24) month period will result in the approval of the preliminary plat
              becoming null and void. Provided, however, that the applicant may request, and
              the Board may authorize, a time extension pursuant to the provisions of, and
              limitations set forth in, Section 8-6-10 of this Title.
        c. Procedure for Final Plat Approval by the Board. Following the approval of the
           preliminary plat by the Board, the final plat shall be submitted to the Director for
           the Board's approval and signature. The procedure for approval of the final plat
           shall be as follows:
           1. The final plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved, and if desired
              by the applicant, it may constitute the entire preliminary plat or any portion
              (phase) thereof; provided, however, that such portion (phase) conforms to all
              requirements of the approval.
           2. The final plat and other documents required for approval shall be prepared as
              specified herein. The final plat shall be submitted to the Director within the time
              allowed in subsection C1b(5) of this Section from the Board's approval of the
              preliminary plat; otherwise, such approval shall expire. The Board may
              authorize time extensions in accordance with Section 8-6-10 of this Title.
              Provided, however, that where developments are made in successive
              contiguous portions (phases) in any orderly and reasonable manner, without
              material changes or departures from the preliminary plat, such portions
              (phases), if submitted within successive two (2) year intervals, may be
              considered for final plat approval.
           3. The final plat, properly executed and approved as required by law, shall be
              presented to the Board by the Director. The Board shall review said plat and
              any recommendations made by the Director. When approved by the Board, said
              plat shall be signed by the chairman of the Board and a notation made in the
              minutes of the meeting. Any exceptions or conditions relating to said approval
              shall be noted in the minutes.
           4. The Board shall act on the application:
               a. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of an acceptable final plat.
               b. If approved, the Board shall adopt findings of fact and conclusions of law
                  and shall state its approval and the conditions of approval, if any, or if
                  disapproved, state its disapproval and the reasons therefor in writing based
                  on findings of fact and conclusions of law.
           5. Final plat and covenants shall be filed with and recorded by the Ada County
              recorder within one year after written approval by the Board. Provided,
              however, that the applicant may request, and the Board may authorize, a time
              extension pursuant to the provisions of, and limitations set forth in, Section 8-
              6-10 of this Title. No plat or dedication, or any instrument passing title to any
              portion thereof, shall be offered for recording unless approved in accordance

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 453
               with this Article.
        d. Procedure for Simultaneous Approval of the Preliminary Plat and Final Plat
           by the Board. Following the recommendation of the preliminary plat by the
           Commission, the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Board for approval, and
           a final plat shall be submitted to the Board for approval and signature. The
           procedure of simultaneous approval by the Board of the preliminary plat and the
           final plat shall be as follows:
           1. The preliminary plat shall conform to the preliminary plat as recommended by
              the Commission, and if desired by the applicant, it may constitute the entire
              preliminary plat or any portion (phase); provided, however, that such portion
              (phase) thereof conforms to all requirements of the approval.
           2. The final plat and other documents required for approval shall be prepared as
              specified herein. The final plat shall be submitted to the Director.
           3. The preliminary plat and the final plat, properly executed as required by law,
              shall be presented to the Board by the Director. The Board shall review said
              plats and any recommendations made by the Director. The Board shall act
              within thirty (30) days after review of the plats. When approved by the Board,
              the final plat shall be signed by the chairman of the Board and a notation made
              in the minutes of the meeting. Any exceptions or conditions relating to said
              approval shall be noted in the minutes. If approved, the Board shall state its
              approval and the conditions of approval, if any, or if denied, state its denial and
              the reasons therefor in writing, based on findings of fact and conclusions of law.
     2. Specifications for Preliminary and Final Plats
        a. Preliminary Plat Application. The application shall contain all the information
           specified in this Section.
           1. The applicant shall submit evidence of proprietary interest in the land to be
              subdivided. Evidence acceptable to the Director shall be a deed record, or, when
              the occasion demands, a land contract, or a current option to purchase, or
              written authority in recordable form authorizing the applicant to act as agent for
              the true owners of said property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Director
              may require additional evidence of proprietary interest from the applicant or his
              agent.
           2. Information required on application forms as provided by the Director.
           3. Such proposed restrictive covenants as are required to ensure continuing
              conformance with the standards set forth in this Article, including, but not
              limited to, building setback lines, wildfire prevention requirements, and energy
              conservation standards, measures, and suggestions.
        b. Preliminary Plat Specifications
           1. Drawing Specifications: All mapped information shall be prepared in a neat and
              legible manner and drawn to a scale of not less than one hundred feet (100’) to
              the inch. A smaller scale or different size may be used for large developments
              with prior written approval from the Director. Limits of the drawing shall

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 454
              include an area not less than one hundred feet (100') beyond boundaries of the
              proposed development. All maps shall show:
              a. The subdivision boundary which shall be based on an actual field survey.
                 The stamp of the licensed professional land surveyor shall certify the
                 boundary survey on the plan.
              b. The name of the owner, person and firm responsible for the drawing.
              c. The name of the proposed subdivision.
              d. The date, graphic scale, true north arrow, vicinity map and section,
                 township, and range.
              e. Ties to all controlling corners.
              f. The names of adjoining subdivisions.
              g. The proposed public street and private road names, street right of way lines,
                 and street centerlines, and the location of proposed shared driveways.
              h. The lot layout with lot and block numbers and approximate dimensions of
                 each lot.
              i. Areas of special use, i.e., parks, schools, open space, etc., and in residential
                 plats all parcels intended for other than residential use shall be indicated by
                 appropriate labeling.
              j. Location, width, direction of slope, and names of existing public streets and
                 private roads.
              k. Important features, such as the following: outline of existing buildings,
                 watercourses, power lines, telephone lines, railroad lines, any existing
                 easement, municipal boundaries, and section lines.
              l. The minimum setbacks from the front, the side, and the rear lot lines.
              m. Contour lines based on USGS datum with intervals of not more than five
                 feet (5') for parcels with a general slope of greater than five percent (5%) or
                 intervals of not more than two feet (2') for parcels with a general slope of
                 less than or equal to five percent (5%), which contour lines shall extend a
                 minimum of one hundred feet (100') beyond the proposed development
                 boundary, and if the proposed development is bordered by a drainage
                 channel, extending the additional distance necessary to show the far side of
                 the drainage facility.
              n. The proposed offsite improvements pertaining to streets, water supply
                 system, wastewater collection and treatment system, fire protection
                 facilities and other essential public services.
              o. Location and identification of all potentially dangerous areas, including
                 geologically hazardous areas, areas subject to inundations or flood hazard,
                 and areas of high groundwater.
        c. Preliminary Plat Supplemental Data


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 455
           1. Percolation tests, approximate location of any areas of fill, and water table data
              as required by the County Engineer. The elevations of all corner points on the
              boundaries of the proposed plat, subdivision, or dedication. Contours when
              required by the County Engineer with intervals of five feet (5') or less
              referenced to such datum acceptable to the County Engineer.
           2. When drainage course and irrigation facilities are involved a topographical plan
              showing existing course, distance, dimensions, and proposed improvements
              including sewers, storm drains, catch basins, pumps, and seepage beds shall be
              provided. Documentary evidence of consent to re-routings by all interested
              landowners affected and having rights to and in such facilities shall also be
              provided.
           3. A reference table of lot numbers and lot types, as defined in subsection 8-13D-
              5A2 of this Article must be provided.
           4. Any other supplementary data deemed necessary by the Director based on the
              location; type of proposed development; or request or recommendation of
              another agency.
        d. Final Plats. The final plat shall be prepared as provided by, and include the items
           required by, Idaho Code, Title 50, Chapter 13, related state law and the following
           additional requirements.
           1. The final plat, drawing page(s) and signature page shall be drawn on eighteen
              inch by twenty-seven inch (18" x 27") sheets. No information, except for a
              borderline, shall be any closer to the edge of any sheet than three and one-half
              inches (3 1/2") at the left edge and a half inch (1/2") on all other edges. The
              letters, numbers, and notes shall be of such size and scale to clearly show on
              the microfilm copies, reproducible copies, and prints of the recorded
              documents.
           2. The drawings page(s) shall show exterior boundary and lot lines, right of way
              lines, streets, street islands, existing and new easements, all accurately
              dimensioned with bearings to the nearest one second and distances to the
              nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of a foot. The dimensions shall provide a
              minimum lot and boundary survey closure of one to ten thousand (1:10,000).
              The drawing page(s) and owner's certificate shall show or contain all related
              curve data including radius, length, central angle, long chord, and long chord
              bearing.
           3. Permanent monuments, magnetically detectable, marked with the license
              number of the surveyor, shall be set for:
               a. All lot corners and the exterior boundary corners.
               b. Centerline angle points, point of curvatures (PCs), point of tangencies
                  (PTs), intersecting street centerlines, and places where centerline changes
                  directions.
               c. Street islands; radius points for cul-de-sacs; and property controlling
                  corners that control the location of the boundary.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 456
               d. In places which are impossible or impractical to set the monument, a witness
                  corner or reference monument shall be set and dimensioned accordingly.
                  Such monument shall be of the same size and marking required for the
                  monument it is replacing. A witness corner monument shall be set on the
                  lot line or property line. A reference monument shall be set with a bearing
                  and distance tie to the actual corner.
               e. All monuments found, existing or accepted and used in the survey shall be
                  marked with the license number of the survey.
           4. The plat shall show:
               a. Two (2) primary control points, approved by the County Surveyor and "ties"
                  to such control points. Primary control points must be public land survey
                  corners or officially recognized corners with corner perpetuation and filing
                  number shown.
               b. The approved street names. All street names shall be approved by the Ada
                  County Street Name Committee.
               c. Location, dimensions, and purpose of any easements.
               d. Location, description, and size of monuments that are set or found.
               e. Title, including subdivision name and general location description, and
                  date.
               f. Owner's certificate shall contain a statement of dedication of easements and
                  private roads. Private roads may be shown as a lot or an easement.
               g. The right of way width from centerline of each street or other right of way.
               h. Name and location of adjoining subdivisions. Other areas show as
                  "unplatted."
               i. Building envelopes.
     3. Required Improvements and Certificates Showing Compliance
        a. Monument And Plat Requirements: The requirements of the Idaho Code regarding
           plats and monuments shall be met and any work required to be performed on the
           property to meet such requirements shall be verified by the County Surveyor prior
           to certification of the plat by him. The provisions of such sections as to monuments,
           stakes and other markings shall be considered minimum requirements, and the
           County Surveyor may establish higher reasonable requirements for Hidden Springs
           planned community by filing a written specification under this section with the
           Board; said written specifications shall become effective under this section only
           when approved by the Board. Any such specifications shall be consistent with those
           applicable for plats in other portions of Ada County.
        b. Streets And Other Improvements: Streets and other improvements, as hereinafter
           listed and as applicable, including, but not limited to, a domestic water supply
           system and wastewater collection and treatment system, public thoroughfare and
           easement signage and landscaping, trails, sidewalks, off street public and private


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 457
                parking areas and traffic control facilities shall be installed in each new
                development at the applicant's expense, unless a political subdivision is created or
                exists, in which case said improvements would be made and maintained by the
                political subdivision, all in accordance with the minimum standards set forth in this
                Article, prior to the acceptance of any final plat for filing. In addition, prior to the
                acceptance of any final plat for filing, the applicant must prove adequate
                mechanisms exist for operations and maintenance of such public improvements.
                Public street improvements shall be in accordance with figures 8-13D-7C3b of this
                Section, the specific plan and this Article; provided that alternative public street
                improvements may be designed and constructed if approved by the Ada County
                Highway District in accordance with its rules, regulations, policies and procedures.
                Private street and road improvements shall be considered, reviewed, and approved
                in conjunction with the approval of plats pursuant to this Article. Private street and
                road improvements shall comply with, and be approved pursuant to, the following
                criteria:
                1. Private streets are to be named in accordance with the provisions of the Ada
                   County uniform street name ordinance.
                2. Private streets shall originate at a public right of way and terminate at a forty-
                   five foot (45') cul-de-sac or other approved turnaround area.
                3. Shared driveways shall originate at a public right of way or private road
                   easement. The design and construction standards shall be approved by the
                   engineer of record and the applicable fire district.
                4. Private street and shared driveway access shall be guaranteed by a recorded
                   perpetual use easement to be noted on the final plat.
                5. Construction Standards:


                                               Private Streets                               Shared
                                                                                            Driveways
                                 1 to 4 lots                           >4 lots
   Minimum          30'                                     30'                             n/a
   right of
   way width

   Minimum          20'                                     24'                             20'
   improved
   width

   6" of 3/4"       X                                       X                               X
   crushed
   gravel,
   compacted




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 458
   2% slope            X                                          X                                    X
   from
   centerline

   Improved            Pavement of asphalt or concrete.           Pavement of asphalt or               n/a
   surface             If concrete, pavement shall                concrete. If concrete,
   (minimum)           consist of a 4" slab on 4" of 3/4"         pavement shall consist of a
                       gravel base course. If asphalt,            4" slab on 4" of 3/4" gravel
                       pavement shall consist of                  base course. If

                       a minimum of 2" machine laid               asphalt, pavement shall
                       asphalt with 6" of 3/4" gravel base        consist of a minimum of
                       course or 11/2" thick bituminous           21/2" machine laid asphalt
                       surface treatment on 6" of 3/4"            with 6" of 3/4" gravel base
                       gravel base course.                        course.


   FIGURE 8-13D-7C3b STREET IMPROVEMENTS
     Road            ROW       Total     Travel    Shoulder      Turn    Parking    Sidewalk/     Setback    Curb
     Type                    Pavement    Lanes     Width (ea)   Lane/     (Left)    Bike Path       To       Type
                              Width                             Median                            Path (1)




   Rural collector   60'    24'         2@12 '    3'            None     None      10'           n/a          None
   - typical



   Rural collector   60'    36'         2@12 '    3'            12'      None      10'           n/a          None
   - with turn
   lane




   Rural collector   46'    24'         2@12 '    3'            None     None      8'            n/a          None
   -
   constrained




   Dry Creek         60'    26'         2@13 '    0'            None     None      10'           n/a         6"
   Bridge
                                                                                                             vertical
   crossing




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 459
      Road            ROW     Total     Travel    Shoulder      Turn     Parking    Sidewalk/    Setback    Curb
      Type                  Pavement    Lanes     Width (ea)   Lane/      (Left)    Bike Path      To       Type
                             Width                             Median                            Path (1)




   Rural              50'   22'        2@11 '    3'            None     None       8'           n/a          None
   residential -
   typical




   Rural              40'   22'        2@11 '    0'            None     None       8'           n/a         12"
   residential -
                                                                                                            ribbon
   constrained




   Village street     72'   50'        2@12 '    0'            10'      8'         5'           6'          6"
   - primary                                                                                                vertical



   Village street -   56'   34'        2@10 '    0'            None     7'         5'           6'          6"
   residential                                                                                              vertical




   Village            20'   16'        n/a       2'            None     None       None         n/a         None
   alley



  Note:
  (1) Distance measured from face of curb.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 460
  Notes:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
  (2) The ROW shall be eighty (80’) feet for Cartwright Road southeast of its intersection with
  Dry Creek Road and for Dry Creek Road from its eastern terminus westward to and including
  the Dry Creek Bridge.

Rural Collector - Typical        Rural collectors serve to collect traffic from and
(Seaman's Gulch Road, Dry        distribute traffic to village streets and rural
Creek Road, And Lower            residential roadways throughout the project. They
Cartwright Road):                will also serve to accommodate through traffic -
                                 although through traffic will be discouraged to help
                                 maintain the rural character and minimize
                                 environmental impact to the Dry Creek Valley. The
                                 typical section includes a sixty-foot (60') right of way
                                 with two (2) 12-foot travel lanes, two (2) 3-foot
                                 stabilized shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum
                                 width grass swales. A single ten-foot (10')
                                 pedestrian/bicycle path will meander in a pedestrian
                                 easement generally parallel to the right of way but
                                 not always contiguous to the right of way.




  Note:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 461
  Rural Collector -   For rural collectors where turn lanes are needed, a twelve-foot (12')
  With Turn Lane      center turn lane will be added as necessary to accommodate turning
                      movement into project roadways. The Section will also include travel
                      lanes of twelve feet (12'). Otherwise, the Section will remain the same
                      as the typical rural collector.




  Note:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)

 Rural Collector -      The rural collector constrained section mainly occurs in the upper
 Constrained (Upper     portion of Cartwright Road. In order to maintain the visual
 Cartwright Road):      character and minimize the site disturbance, this section has been
                        narrowed. The typical section includes a forty-six foot (46') right
                        of way with two (2) 12- foot travel lanes, two (2) 3-foot stabilized
                        shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum width grass swales. A
                        single eight foot (8') shared pedestrian/bicycle path will be
                        approximately parallel to the right of way in a separate pedestrian
                        easement.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 462
  Note:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)

 Dry Creek             The Dry Creek Bridge Crossing will provide enhanced capacity,
 Bridge                safety and the addition of a separate bicycle/pedestrian facility
 Crossing:             across Dry Creek. The bridge can also serve as a primary visual
                       identity element for the project and may become a "covered bridge"
                       with appropriate vertical clearance and architectural style. The
                       bridge crossing will remain in its current location. Bridge width and
                       associated grading should be kept to a minimum to prevent impact to
                       the riparian corridor. The typical section includes a thirty-two foot
                       (32') wide bridge surface with two (2) 13-foot travel lanes. A single
                       ten-foot (10') pedestrian/bicycle path will be accommodated in a
                       separate pedestrian/bicycle bridge crossing.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 463
  Note:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)

 Rural Residential    Rural residential streets include most of the roadways in Hidden
 - Typical:           Springs and will serve to carry local traffic to/from individual
                      homesites. These roadways will be located and designed to discourage
                      through traffic and maintain low vehicular speeds. The typical section
                      includes a fifty-foot (50') right of way with two (2) 11-foot travel
                      lanes, two (2) 3-foot stabilized shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum
                      width grass swales. A single eight foot (8') shared pedestrian/bicycle
                      path will meander beyond the ROW in a pedestrian easement as
                      necessary.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 464
  Note:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)

 Rural Residential -   Constrained rural residential streets occur in steeply sloped areas that
 Constrained:          cannot handle the width required for the typical rural residential
                       section. This section includes a forty-foot (40') right of way with two
                       (2) 11-foot travel lanes, no stabilized shoulders (but a 12-inch ribbon
                       curb included in the 11-foot travel lane) and one grass swale on the
                       uphill side of the street. An eight-foot (8') pedestrian/bicycle path will
                       be located on the downhill side of the street with a wood guardrail
                       separating it from the street for safety purposes.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 465
 Village Street - Primary (Seaman's   Primary village streets will serve as the "main streets"
 Gulch Road, Dry Creek Road and       of the village center and will accommodate the
 McFarland Road Within the            potential for commercial uses, community center,
 Village Center):                     school, and village residential uses along their
                                      frontage. Village streets should establish a
                                      comfortable environment for pedestrians with slower
                                      vehicular speeds, frequent vehicular stops, on street
                                      parking and tree lined sidewalks. The typical section
                                      includes a seventy-two foot (72') ROW with two (2)
                                      12-foot travel lanes, one 10-foot turn lane (where
                                      necessary) or planted median, two (2) 8-foot parallel
                                      parking lanes, and five foot (5') sidewalks set back
                                      from the curb with a five foot six inch (5'6") tree lawn
                                      on both sides of the street and within the right of way.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 466
Village Residential (All     Residential village streets should also establish a comfortable
Other Streets Within the     pedestrian environment with slow vehicular speeds, frequent
Village Center):             vehicular stops, on these streets should be low enough to
                             eliminate the need for turn lanes, The typical section includes a
                             fifty-six foot (56’) right of way with two (2) 7-foot parallel parking
                             lanes and five foot (5’) sidewalks set back from the curb with a
                             five foot six inch (5’6”) tree lawn.




Village Alley:             Alleys will be created to eliminate driveways on village streets.
                           Fewer driveways on village streets means more on street parking,
                           more resident interaction, less utilitarian infrastructure, and no
                           unsightly garages lining residential streets. Alleys will also be used
                           for utility easements, trash collection, and emergency vehicular
                           access. The typical alley section includes a sixteen-foot (16') paved
                           lane with two foot (2') shoulders on each side.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 467
        a. General Development Standards. The standards and specifications for each
           general type of use shall be as set forth in the Hidden Springs specific plan and this
           Article.
        b. Acceptance of Improvements by County. Where an acceptable surety
           arrangement is deposited as provided in subsection C3e of this Section and the work
           thereby guaranteed has been completed, notice in writing of such completion,
           together with sets of prints of the "as built" plans and specifications for all
           improvements, and requests for the return of the surety arrangement shall be given
           in duplicate to the Director, who shall give one copy thereof to the County Engineer
           for verification and certificate of completion of work. Upon the Director receiving
           said certificate as provided in subsection C3g of this Section, the Director shall give
           notice to the County clerk to release the sureties heretofore deposited with said
           County clerk in the manner and to the extent as provided for in the surety agreement
           referred to in subsection C3e of this Section and commensurate to the extent of the
           acceptance by the County Engineer of the work, or other improvements called for
           in the surety agreement.
        c. Deposit for Completion of Required Improvements. An applicant or other
           interested party, in lieu of completion of the required minimum street and other
           improvements required by subsection C3b of this Section, or any portion thereof,
           may deposit with the County clerk a surety bond or performance bond, or a certified
           check or a cashier's check drawn on a bank qualified to do business in the state, or
           a cash deposit, or an acceptable letter of credit, certificate of deposit, or assignment
           of funds on deposit in a bank or building and loan association, qualified to do
           business in the state, and the amount of such surety called for to be equal to not less
           than one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the cost of required improvements
           according to the estimate reviewed and approved by the Ada County Engineer, and
           in all cases such surety shall be drawn in favor of, and payable to the order of the
           County of Ada, in accordance with the provisions contained in the surety agreement
           by and between the guarantor and the County of Ada. Such surety agreement shall
           contain suitable provisions requiring the applicant to construct all improvements.
        d. Notice of Installation. The applicant shall be required to give the County Engineer
           two (2) days' advance notice of any and all construction of required improvements.
        e. Certificates. Provisions requiring compliance by the applicant prior to recording of
           final plat shall be:
           1. A certificate by the County Engineer certifying that the applicant has complied
              with one of the following alternatives:
               a. All improvements have been installed in accordance with the requirements
                  of this Article and with the action of the Board giving conditional approval
                  of the preliminary plat; or
               b. An acceptable surety arrangement has been posted, which is available to the
                  County, and in sufficient amount to assure such completion of all required
                  improvements.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 468
            2. Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements, or deductions as may be
               required by the Commission in the enforcement of this Article.
            3. Protective covenants in form for recording if required.
     4. Dedication of Streets. All public streets shall be done in accordance with the provisions
        of this Article and the Ada County Highway District’s rules, regulations, policies, and
        procedures.
  D. Parcel Boundary Adjustment. The Director may approve the adjustment of platted or
     unplatted parcel boundary lines. The approval process shall be as follows:
     1. Application. All owners of parcels involved in parcel boundary adjustment shall
        submit a completed standard application to the Director.
     2. Tentative Approval. The Director shall apply the following standards to determine
        whether or not approval of the proposed parcel boundary adjustment will be granted:
         a. A parcel boundary adjustment shall not reduce the parcel site below the minimum
            dimensional standards prescribed by this Article.
         b. A parcel boundary adjustment shall not increase the original number of parcels.
         c. A parcel boundary adjustment shall not change or move any public streets, private
            streets, easements, or publicly dedicated areas in any manner.
     3. Final Approval. Upon tentative approval of the application by the Director, the
        applicant shall:
         a. Cause the property to be surveyed and a record of survey recorded;
         b. Execute and record the necessary deeds to accomplish the parcel boundary
            adjustments as approved;
         c. Obtain new tax parcel numbers from the Ada County Assessor; and
         d. Provide copies of the recorded record of survey, recorded deeds, and the new tax
            parcel numbers to the Director.
     4. Certificate Of Approval Issuance. Upon determination by the Director that the final
        parcel boundary adjustment is in conformance with this Section, a certificate of
        approval shall be issued.
     5. Required Fees. All required fees must be paid in accordance with 8-6-5 of this Title.
  E. Administrative Permit Use Approval Process. Both the residential use and
     nonresidential use categories listed in subsections 8-13D-5B and C of this Article,
     respectively, contain acceptable administrative permit uses. The development of any
     administrative permit use requires an administrative permit. Administrative permit uses
     contained within subsections 8-13D-5B, and C of this Article are approved as follows:
     1. Approval Required by The Director. In view of the potential impact upon adjacent
        property from an administrative permit use, the granting of such a permit shall be
        subject to review and approval by the Director.
         The applicant shall submit an application, as provided by the Director, and pay a fee to
         the Director in accordance with the provisions contained in this Article. The fee

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 469
        schedule for administrative permits shall be proposed by the Director and approved by
        the Board.
     2. Information Required on Application. The application for an administrative permit
        shall include the following information and materials:
        a. A vicinity map at a scale of three hundred feet (300') per one inch (1").
        b. A statement describing the project in narrative form.
        c. A general description of how adjacent and neighboring properties will be protected
           from adverse effects, if any, prompted by the proposed development.
        d. A statement setting forth the maximum overall gross floor area and, if applicable,
           the floor area ratio proposed, and the maximum gross floor area and floor area ratio
           proposed for each use in the proposed development.
        e. A statement setting forth the number of parking spaces, and the general location
           and character, whether surface or structured, thereof, if applicable.
        f. A statement of the improvements, public or private, on or off site, proposed for
           construction or dedication, and an estimate of the timing of providing such
           improvements.
        g. A conceptual design plan, at an acceptable scale, showing, to the extent applicable,
           the location and arrangement of all proposed uses, the proposed traffic circulation
           plan including points of access, parking areas, major streets and major pedestrian,
           bike, or other recreational paths, all proposed major open space and landscaped
           areas, and the approximate location of all proposed community and public facilities.
        h. Such additional information as the Director may require, or the applicant may desire
           to submit, in order to facilitate review and consideration of the administrative
           permit use.
     3. Notices And Meetings. The Director shall mail notices to property owners within three
        hundred feet (300') of the external lot line of the property under consideration, and
        fifteen (15) days shall be allowed for response to said notice.
        It shall be the sole duty of the applicant and not that of Ada County to provide notice
        and opportunity for a meeting at least fourteen (14) days prior to the administrative
        permit decision before the Director to review the proposed project to all residents
        within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the application parcel, and
        to all applicable community associations within the Hidden Springs planned
        community. Such meeting or opportunity for a meeting shall take place not more than
        six (6) months before submittal of the application. Verification of a meeting, or that an
        opportunity for a meeting was provided, shall be submitted in writing by the applicant
        to the Director.
     4. Approval/Findings. The Director shall consider the following criteria in determining
        whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny said administrative permit:
        a. The proposed administrative permit use is designed to mitigate any substantial
           adverse impacts, hazard or nuisance, or other material detriment to surrounding
           lands;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 470
         b. The site is of sufficient size to accommodate the proposed use and all yards, open
            spaces, walls, fences, parking, loading areas, landscaping and design standards as
            are required by this Article are met;
         c. The proposed development is designed in accordance with public facilities,
            services, transportation systems and essential public services which are adequate
            for the development proposed, and which are available, or reasonably probable to
            be achieved, prior to use and occupancy of the development; and
         d. The proposed use substantially complies with the Hidden Springs specific plan and
            this Article.
     5. Conditions. An application for an administrative permit shall be approved by the
        Director contingent upon acceptance and observance of specified conditions including,
        but not limited to, the following:
         a. Conformity to approved conceptual design plans;
         b. Performance standards, related to the emission of noise, vibration, glare and other
            potentially adverse impacts;
         c. Limits on time of day for the conduct of specified activities;
         d. The period within which the permit shall be exercised or otherwise lapse;
         e. Guarantees as to compliance with the terms of the approval;
         f. A continuous obligation to maintain adequate housekeeping practices to prevent
            the creation of a nuisance;
         g. Performance standards, which protect the public health, safety and welfare and
            mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
     6. Application Time Frame. An application for an administrative permit shall be acted
        upon by the Director within not more than sixty (60) days following acceptance of the
        application. Administrative permit uses may only be granted as allowed by this Article.
     7. Amendments. Once an administrative permit has been approved, the applicant may
        seek an amendment using the same procedures as an initial administrative permit use
        application.
  F. Accessory Use Provisions. The Director shall make the determination as to whether a
     building, structure or use is accessory to a principal permitted use or administrative permit
     use and may issue zoning certificates if a use is determined to be accessory and would
     otherwise comply with this Article.
     The determination of whether a building, structure or use is accessory shall be based upon
     the relationship of the building, structure or use to the principal permitted use or
     administrative permit use. Specifically, it must be habitually or commonly established as
     reasonably incidental to the principal permitted use or administrative permit use and
     located and conducted on the same premises as the principal permitted use or
     administrative permit use. In determining whether it is accessory, the following factors
     shall be used:
     1. The size of the lot in question;


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 471
     2. The nature of the principal permitted or administrative permit use;
     3. The zoning and land use on adjacent lots;
     4. The actual incidence of similar accessory uses in the area; and
     5. The potential for adverse impact on adjacent property.
     The applicant shall submit an application on an approved form together with the established
     fee. The Director, after reviewing said application, shall approve, approve with conditions,
     or deny said application within sixty (60) days of his acceptance of the application.
  G. Employment Center Approval Process. The Hidden Springs zoning map and subsection
     8-13D-5C6 of this Article provide for "employment center" overlay districts. These
     employment center overlay districts and the permitted and accessory uses are consistent
     with the overall goals and policies and purposes and intent of the Hidden Springs specific
     plan and this Article. The exact impacts of the employment center uses are difficult to
     determine until the specific use is identified and evaluated. As part of the application for
     an employment center use being considered in the Hidden Springs planned community,
     additional studies, and analysis of the specific use as well as a public hearing before the
     Commission are required.
     1. Application Submittal. The applicant shall submit an application to the Director in
        accordance with the provisions contained in this Article. The fee schedule for
        employment center permits shall be proposed by the Director and approved by the
        Board. The Director shall set the date for a public hearing and the notice of hearing
        shall be given in accordance with subsections G2 and G3 of this Section.
     2. Date Of Application. The date of application shall be the date that the Director accepts
        a complete application including payment of the required fee and all of the information
        in the manner as required by this Article. The date for the required public hearings shall
        be fixed by the Director, within a reasonable time thereafter, and in no case later than
        sixty (60) days after receipt of the application in its due form. Hearing and notice
        procedures shall be governed by 8-6-8 of this Title, and Idaho Code Section 67-6501
        et seq., as shall be amended from time to time and by such rules and procedures as the
        Commission and the Board may adopt pursuant to this Article and this Title.
     3. Hearings. At every public hearing before the Commission, the Commission shall hear
        all interested persons, or their representative. The Commission shall receive,
        investigate, hear, and take action upon every application received. In acting upon the
        applications involving property, the Commission may require reasonable conditions of
        approval that it deems necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare and
        prevent adverse impacts on surrounding parties. Action of the Commission shall be
        documented.
     4. Information Required on Application. The application for an employment center use
        permit shall include the information and materials required for an administrative permit
        application and such other information as the Director shall identify in the
        preapplication conference as described in subsection B of this Section.
     5. Approval/Findings. An application for an employment center use permit may be
        approved only if the evidence at the hearings establishes that the proposed employment


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 472
        center use:
        a. Utilizes site planning and general building massing and architecture themes that
           maintain or enhance the rural character of the Dry Creek Valley and surrounding
           areas;
        b. Maintains or enhances the natural environmental qualities of the land and does not
           disrupt existing environmental systems;
        c. Minimizes the visual impact of development by capitalizing on the site's existing
           landforms and supplemental grading and landscaping;
        d. Connects to the project wide network of roadways, paths, and trails in an integrated
           manner;
        e. Augments community water and sanitary wastewater collection and treatment
           systems sufficiently to support the proposed use without impacting the quality of
           service to residential and commercial uses within the community;
        f. Is designed to mitigate any substantial adverse impacts, hazard or nuisance, or other
           material detriment to surrounding lands;
        g. Is of sufficient size to accommodate the proposed use;
        h. Is designed in accordance with public facilities, services, transportation systems
           and essential public services which are adequate for the development proposed, and
           which are available, or reasonably probable to be achieved prior to use and
           occupancy of the development; and
        i. Is consistent with the general intent of the Hidden Springs specific plan.
     6. Employment Center Use Permit Granted. The granting of an employment center use
        permit shall be subject to compliance with the Hidden Springs specific plan and this
        Article. Employment center uses may only be granted as allowed by this Article.
     7. Employment Center Use Permit Approval. An application for an employment center
        use permit shall be approved by the Commission contingent upon acceptance and
        observance of specified conditions including, but not limited to, the following:
        a. Conformity to approved conceptual design plans;
        b. Performance standards, related to the emission of noise, vibration, glare, and other
           potentially adverse impacts;
        c. Limits on time of day for the conduct of specified activities;
        d. The period within which the permit shall be exercised or otherwise lapse;
        e. Guarantees as to compliance with the terms of the approval;
        f. A continuous obligation to maintain adequate operational practices to prevent the
           creation of a nuisance; and
        g. Performance standards, which protect the public health, safety and welfare and
           mitigate adverse effects on surrounding property.
     8. Amendments. Once an employment center use permit has been approved, an applicant


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 473
         may seek an amendment using the same procedures as an initial employment center
         application.
  H. Building Permits. Building permits and grading permits shall be issued in accordance with
     the Ada County Building Code ordinance; provided, however, that no building or grading
     permit shall be issued to an applicant until such time as the applicant has provided to the
     county a certificate issued by the Hidden Springs design review committee approving the
     proposed building improvements and/or grading for which the building permit or grading
     permit is being sought.
  I. Public Community Event Permit Approval Process. The holding of a public community
     event requires a public community event permit. Public community event permits are
     approved as follows:
     1. Approval Required by The Director. In view of the potential impact upon adjacent
        property from a public community event, the granting of such a permit shall be subject
        to review and approval by the Director. The applicant shall submit an application, as
        approved by the Director, and pay a fee to the Director in accordance with the
        provisions contained in this Article.
     2. Information Required on Application. The application for a public community event
        permit shall include the following information and materials:
         a. Time, place, duration, and location of event;
         b. Nature of event;
         c. Estimated attendance;
         d. Prior to submittal of a public event permit application, the applicant shall submit
            written approval of the event plan from the following agencies to development
            services (the approval may be either on agency letterhead referring to the approved
            plan or may be written/stamped upon a copy of the approved plans):
             1. Central District Health Department,
             2. Ada County Sheriff,
             3. North Ada County Fire and Rescue District;
         e. Sanitary facilities to be provided, if any;
         f. Traffic and parking management plans, if any;
         g. Special security measures, if any;
         h. Name, address, and telephone number of event holder.
     3. Approval/Findings. The Director shall consider the following criteria in determining
        whether to approve, approve with conditions, or deny said permit:
         a. The proposed site is of sufficient size to accommodate the event; and
         b. The proposed sanitary facilities, traffic and parking plan, security measures, and
            fire protection and/or prevention measures are adequate for the proposed event.
     4. Time Frame. An application for a public community event permit shall be submitted


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 474
           at least twenty-five (25) days prior to the scheduled event. The Director shall accept or
           reject the application for good cause shown, in writing, within five (5) days. Once the
           application has been formally accepted the Director shall act upon the application
           within five (5) days.
   J. Signs. Signs are allowed throughout Hidden Springs. 8-3-12 of this Title shall not be
      applicable to signs within Hidden Springs. The design review committee shall have
      exclusive authority to approve all temporary signs within Hidden Springs. Temporary signs
      shall be those with a dimension of eighteen (18) square feet or less in sign fascia and shall
      be in existence for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days or less. The Director shall
      review and approve or deny a sign in accordance with the design guidelines as set forth in
      Section 8-13D-10-6 of this Article.
   K. Appeals. Actions taken by the Director or Commission to approve or deny any plat
      application, administrative permit use application, public community event permit
      application, sign application, or accessory use determination and including any condition
      of approval or denial thereof, may be appealed to the Board by the applicant or any
      adversely affected, or aggrieved person.
   L. Expenses For Processing Applications. All expenses necessary to provide the data
      required hereunder for processing and/or qualifying an application shall be paid by the
      applicant through the fee schedule process referenced herein.
   M. Violations And Penalties. Each violation of this Article set forth herein shall be a
      misdemeanor. Each violation for each day it shall continue shall constitute a separate
      offense, and each violation shall be punishable as provided in Section 18-113, Idaho Code
      as it may from time to time be amended and/or retitled.
       Whenever the Director shall determine that a violation of these regulations has occurred,
       or is about to occur, he shall notify the Board of such violation and recommend action that
       should be taken. Upon determination of a violation, whether or not a recommendation has
       been received from the Director, the Board may request the Ada County prosecuting
       attorney to commence action, criminal or civil, to correct the violation and to punish the
       same.
       In the event any action is taken in violation of a provision hereof, the proper authorities of
       the County, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or
       proceeding to prevent such unlawful development of land, to restrain, correct or abate such
       violation, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such premises.
8-13D-8:       Amendments
This Article and/or the specific plan shall be amended in the same manner as provided in this Title
for amendments to the Ada County Zoning Ordinance. The specific plan shall be amended by
resolution of the Board.
8-13D-9:       Specific Plan
8-13D-9-1:     Vision Statement
Vision. The primary vision of Hidden Springs is the creation of a rural community in the tradition
of small towns spread throughout Idaho. In accomplishing this goal, the traditional character of
the Dry Creek area will be maintained, while allowing for low density residential development. In

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 475
addition, development of the Hidden Springs community is intended to provide residents with a
clear sense of place. The Hidden Springs plan includes a small Village Center; a general store; a
school site; fire and sheriff facilities; playing fields; and recreation facilities.
Another principal element of the Hidden Springs vision is an emphasis on protecting and
enhancing the natural environment. Plans for development are based on careful analysis of the
physical and ecological characteristics of the land. Design standards and guidelines will ensure that
only a very small fraction of the land is ever developed or disturbed and that homes will be
compatible with the environmental systems of the area.
Perhaps most importantly, Hidden Springs has been conceived as an integrated rural planned
community with requisite maintenance and operating entities and established development
standards and design guidelines. When people make the choice to live in Hidden Springs it will be
with a vision of what the community and its surroundings will be like both now and in the future.
Major Plan Elements
Traditional Village Center. The Village Center is envisioned as a rural community center built
around a general store, small scale shops and restaurants, a community center, recreation facilities
and other appropriate commercial and community amenities. The Village Center will also include
a fire station and sheriff's office.
Density and Community Diversity. Hidden Springs specific plan assumes one thousand thirty-
five (1,035) units on one thousand seven hundred sixty-five (1,765) acres, for an overall density of
about one unit per one and seven-tenths (1.7) acres. A range of housing types and prices, from
farm/ranch lots to townhomes will offer a diversity of living options from rural to traditional north
end style housing. This concept promotes community diversity by offering a variety of housing
opportunities for first time buyers through large families to empty nesters.
Traffic Reduction. Hidden Springs is planned and designed to reduce reliance on the automobile
and to minimize and contain vehicle trips, by:
      Providing a general store, schools, and on-site recreation that will keep trips from going
       outside the project area.
      Directing traffic southwest to State Street via Gary Lane and westward to Highway 55 and
       Eagle Road.
      Providing a park and ride lot in the Village Center.
      Creating an extensive pedestrian and bicycle path system.
      Incorporating advanced technology to encourage and support telecommuting.
Trails and Greenbelt
      Hidden Springs will initiate and provide the foundation for major additions to the Boise
       foothills trail system, including:
      A publicly accessible greenbelt system for all of Dry Creek Valley, from Bogus Basin Road
       to Eagle, for both public recreation and wildlife habitat protection.
      Public access along Dry Creek, the western foothills, and to trail systems beyond.
      In addition, Hidden Springs will feature a comprehensive internal pedestrian and bicycle


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 476
       path system to encourage nonmotorized transportation and on-site recreation.
Wildlife
      The plans for Hidden Springs place strong emphasis on promoting wildlife, including:
      The conservation and enhancement of large upland and riparian areas as wildlife habitat or
       migration corridors.
      Attention to both game and nongame wildlife needs.
      A unique set of development standards and design guidelines prepared to minimize
       conflicts between wildlife and development through landscape design and domestic pet
       controls.
      Conservation and enhancement of the Dry Creek greenbelt corridor.
Design And Development Standards
      Plans and designs for Hidden Springs have been built from the ground up with sensitivity
       to the site's unique qualities and character. The built community will be based on standards
       including:
      Tucking new development into coves and avoiding "ridge chopping" construction
       techniques.
      Locating roads to follow natural contours and approach development from draws and the
       rear to minimize visual impacts of road cuts.
      Designating building envelopes to ensure maintenance of the rural character and to
       minimize visual impacts of development.
      Designing landscape envelopes around homes to ensure the predominance of the
       indigenous vegetation and reduce water usage.
Water Conservation. A water conservation program will be employed to reduce water
requirements for homes built in Hidden Springs compared with conventional development with
similar types of homes in the Boise area. The conservation program will include:
      A Xeriscape or low water consumption approach to new installed landscape.
      Limitation to areas to be landscaped.
      Use of advanced irrigation technology.
      Building design requirements for low flow or low water use fixtures.
      Educational materials provided to all homeowners.
8-13D-9-2:    Objectives and Policies
Community Goals, Objectives and Policies. The goals, objectives and policies for the
community of Hidden Springs are as follows:
       1. Create a rural community and a traditional Village Center.
       2. Preserve and enhance the rural character of Hidden Springs in general and for the
          project site in particular.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 477
       3. Conserve and enhance wildlife habitat and migration corridors.
       4. Maintain and enhance the natural environmental qualities of the land, and air and water
          quality.
       5. Implement trip reduction strategies to reduce vehicular trip generation and minimize
          the number of vehicle trips outside the community.
       6. Direct traffic to existing collector, state highways, and arterial streets to the south and
          west.
       7. Provide for a mix of housing types and densities and commercial activities in order to
          provide for a strong and diverse community.
       8. Minimize negative visual impacts of new development.
       9. Provide a network of public and private paths for bicycles, pedestrians and, where
          appropriate, equestrians, to allow ease of movement around the community.
       10. Provide for an irrigation delivery system for agricultural land and common areas.
       11. Provide a publicly accessible greenbelt area and path along Dry Creek within the
           project site and on-site trails which link to the foothills regional trail system.
       12. Ensure that the community has all essential public services and mechanisms in place to
           maintain and operate such systems.
       13. Establish project, site and building design guidelines that will minimize the threat and
           assist in the control of wildfires.
       14. Provide sites for schools, a fire station and law enforcement facilities.
       15. Create parks, playing fields and recreational facilities.
       16. Establish a community association with appropriate responsibilities for maintenance,
           management, and governance of Hidden Springs.
8-13D-9-3:     Population and Development Trends
The following table documents population estimates and projections for Ada County and planning
areas within the County. These numbers have been adopted by the Ada Planning Association as
the basis for planning activities in Ada County. Future population increases for Ada County have
been forecast at an average annual rate of approximately three percent (3%). The rate of growth
for 1990-1995 three and eight-tenths percent (3.8%), is considerably greater than the two percent
(2%) average rate seen between 1980 and 1990.
Growth Patterns. The number of households continues to increase dramatically, surpassing
population growth. This rapid growth pattern reflects a decrease in persons per household. Increase
for the period 1990-1995 is estimated to be approximately forty-eight thousand two hundred four
(48,204) people for a 1995 estimated population of two hundred fifty-three thousand nine hundred
fifty-four (253,954). Ada Planning Association (APA) data projects that between 1995 and 2000,
thirty-six thousand (36,000) new residents can be expected for a total of two hundred ninety
thousand (290,000).
Hidden Springs is located within the Ada Planning Association Area called Rural. More
specifically it is located mostly within the Traffic Zone 211 which lies north of Hill Road and


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 478
between Pierce Park and Seaman's Gulch Roads. The data for Traffic Zone 211 shows population
doubling and households increasing by approximately one hundred percent (100%) from 1990 to
1995.
Alternative Plans. Ada County, the City of Boise and other local agencies have been moving
forward in their evaluation of a land use plan for the foothills area, which covers the foothill area
from Lucky Peak west to Highway 55 and includes the Dry Creek Valley and Hidden Springs. The
Ada County Comprehensive Plan has been updated and adopted. The County anticipates
consideration of the foothills plan in 1997.
Residential Development Patterns. Residential development in the Dry Creek Valley has
historically been farm and ranch related. Since the mid-1980's however, significant numbers of
rural residential homes on sites ranging from one to twenty-five (1–25) acres have been
constructed. The pattern of rural residential construction along Dry Creek on the west side of
Highway 55 is very extensive. Homes in that area are generally on lots from one-fourth (1/4) acre
to five (5) acres. Demand for residential lots in Dry Creek to the east of Highway 55, which
includes the Hidden Springs vicinity, is reported by property owners and realtors to be very high,
although supply to this point has been limited to lot splits and small subdivisions.
Rapid growth in the Boise area is resulting in new development in a number of areas that have
previously been predominantly rural. Hidden Springs, if built out completely in a fifteen (15) year
period through 2010, would accommodate three percent (3%) of the population growth projected
for Ada County.
Development Rationale and Justification. Hidden Springs is intended to accommodate and
respond to the continued population growth Ada County is anticipated to experience. The Dry
Creek Valley is identified in the current draft (and all previous drafts) of the city of Boise foothills
plan as an area appropriate for development and urban densities. The physical and environmental
characteristics of the Dry Creek Valley as well as the location of the valley in relation to existing
and anticipated transportation networks make the area an appropriate place to accommodate
planned community growth needs. Hidden Springs is also closer to the primary employment
centers than much of the residential development occurring on prime farmland on the urban
fringes.
Hidden Springs, at build-out, projects a total population of two thousand five hundred eighty-eight
(2,588), with school enrollment at five hundred eighteen (518). The project will provide a unique
rural community and development alternative that is otherwise not available in Ada County.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 479
8-13D-9-4:      Population Projections

                        Ada County Population Projections By Planning Area
  Planning Area        1990 US                       1995             2000             2005             2010             2015
                       Census
                        Ada County Population Projections By Planning Area
  Planning Area        1990 US                       1995             2000             2005             2010             2015
                       Census
  Airport              749                 814              821              786              734              662
  Central Bench        35,713              39,635           40,759           40,451           40,723           41,417
  Eagle                5,970               8,517            11,474           11,616           12,161           13,387
  Garden City          6,620               8,536            9,559            9,722            10,135           10,707
  Kuna                 2,418               3,015            3,352            3,295            3,528            3,973
  Meridian             12,412              21,251           30,049           31,331           35,571           40,607
  North River
  Downtown             3,022               3,025            3,403            3,873            4,031            4,059
  East End             5,925               6,677            6,993            6,986            7,203            7,470
  Foothills            7,679               8,910            9,949            10,547           11,335           12,172
  North End            15,645              16,910           17,453           17,198           17,549           17,993
  Northwest            9,886               13,958           14,690           16,379           16,691           17,163
  Southeast            21,742              29,892           34,536           36,891           40,910           46,014
  Southwest            20,090              21,255           24,570           28,089           29,745           32,749
  West Bench           44,304              55,571           62,593           65,995           69,961           74,344
  Rural County         13,575              15,988           19,754           24,682           32,564           41,123
  Total                205,750             253,954          289,955          307,841          332,841          363,840

                               1990                                  1995                                2000
  TAZ #211 Population Households                     Population Households               Population Households


                 156                  59              308               122               447                  182

  Source: Ada Planning Association, 1995 Preliminary Projections




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 480
8-13D-9-5:     Existing Conditions Overview
The predevelopment conditions section of this specific plan is a comprehensive overview of the
existing conditions at Hidden Springs. This information has been compiled through the efforts of
a team of planning and technical consultants that represent a wide range of expertise. Combining
national experience with a strong local familiarity in their respective fields, these planners,
landscape architects, engineers, archaeologists, geologists, economists, attorneys, and natural
resource specialists have all integrated their work to develop the background reports, maps and
diagrams included herein. Each piece of information was developed through extensive agency
coordination, field review, public input, and background research by the individual team members.
As part of this process, much of the critical existing natural, cultural, and environmental
components of Hidden Springs have been mapped and diagrammed through computer technology
and a database available in geographic information systems (GIS). This material was subsequently
overlaid and composited into an analysis that identified the opportunities and limitations at Hidden
Springs, providing the foundation for many of the critical land use strategies for the planning and
development of Hidden Springs.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 481
8-13D-9-6:   Vicinity Map




   Figure 2-A




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 482
8-13D-9-7:      Historical Overview
A History of Dry Creek Valley, 1860s to 1940s. The south fork of Dry Creek flows into a valley
about a half (1/2) mile wide and two (2) miles long. Cottonwoods dot the creek bed and sage-
covered sandstone hills surround the green valley floor. The Dry Creek area includes the region
east from present day Highway 55, to Stewart Gulch and north from Hill Road to the Boise County
line.
Boise Basin gold discoveries in 1863 brought hundreds of miners pouring into the region. Miners
from played out Oregon and California gold camps came through Payette Valley, Horseshoe Bend,
and by the new city of Boise, which was platted that year. It was situated next to the U.S. Army
fort site selected by Major Pinckney Lugenbeel at the crossroads of the Oregon Trail and the road
to the Boise Basin gold mines. Idaho Territory was established that year, with Boise named as its
capital in 1864. Idaho first included what is now Montana and almost all of Wyoming. With the
creation of Montana Territory in 1864 and Wyoming Territory in 1868, Idaho received its
permanent boundaries. (1)
Boise became the major distribution site for Basin mining supplies and fresh produce. Many
miners found it more profitable to make a living by raising livestock and some vegetables to sell
to their counterparts and local soldiers, rather than mining the elusive gold. Small communities
appeared throughout the Boise Basin as new settlers made their homes along creeks and rivers.
There they could easily raise stock and crops and had ready access to local markets.
The Dry Creek Valley was one such community. It was centrally located near roads leading to the
Boise Basin mines and the Boise Army barracks. An 1863 branch of the Oregon Trail passed
nearby. Dry Creek's location, natural pastureland and rich soil made it a desirable setting. The
creek and natural springs provided plentiful water for the stock and crops. For a short time in Dry
Creek Valley, a stage station and stone hotel served travelers on their way to Boise Basin. (2)
Homestead records and deeds document eight land claims in Dry Creek Valley by 1864. One of
the earliest settlers was P. L. Schick, who homesteaded what is now the Hidden Springs property
in late 1864 with George Banker. They started out with five (5) horses, one wagon, one plow, and
a harrow. Eventually Schick bought out Banker's interest in the property. Schick's assets, listed in
the 1890 Ada County Assessor's records, show a man of substantial means:

   money on deposit                                                  $700.00
   2 vehicles                                                        75.00
   harness                                                           25.00
   55 stock horses                                                   1,100.00
   3 cows                                                            60.00
   7 cattle                                                          84.00
   7 hogs                                                            20.00 (3)

Schick and his family raised stock and farmed in the area until at least 1907. Transportation
networks in the region developed rapidly. In 1869 Alexander Rossi and
A. H. Robie built a toll road from their Shafer Creek lumber mill, located near present-

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 483
day Horseshoe Bend. The road ran to mining areas near Sinker Creek in Owyhee County. The road
continued to make Dry Creek Valley a thoroughfare for many people. Rossi and Robie's mill
supplied building materials for Boise, Silver City, and other mining communities. The toll rates
were two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) for one wagon and a span of horses or cattle and fifty cents
($0.50) for each additional span. (4)
Rossi and Robie ran the toll road until 1881, when Thomas Healy was granted a license to maintain
the road "...from the crossing of Dry Creek to what is known as the Rossi Mill at Shafer Creek."
(5) Healy typified many settlers of the Boise Valley. He first tried his hand at prospecting in Silver
City and Atlanta. When that venture was not successful, he moved to Boise and formed a
partnership with Frank Bailey to buy the Rossi sawmill. He maintained and ran the toll road until
he sold it to Boise County in 1907. It was first called the Rossi Toll Road and eventually became
known as Healy Toll Road. Toll rates dropped by 1884 to fifty cents ($0.50) for one wagon and a
span of horses or cattle, with each additional stock or wagon an additional twenty-five cents
($0.25). A single horse or vehicle costs twenty-five cents ($0.25). Rates stayed at the same price
until the toll road was sold. Thomas Healy remained in the Dry Creek Valley until his death in
1925. (6)
By 1873, the area residents were raising and marketing hay and oats for the local Boise market.
One local farmer threshed ninety-six (96) bushels of oats, grown on one acre of land. By the winter
of 1873 hay was selling for thirty-five dollars ($35.00) to forty dollars ($40.00) a ton, so it became
more profitable for Dry Creek Valley farmers to raise hay than grain. (7) The newspapers also
mentioned the potential of farming in Dry Creek Valley. They described the Hidden Springs
property, which was now a farm under the ownership of A.J. Wyatt, in detail.
His farm comprises one hundred sixty (160) acres, about one hundred forty (140) acres lying on
the west side of the creek, all in one field, with the exception of five acres adjoining his house,
fenced in for orchard and garden purposes. His house is on the same side of the creek, with a
running spring and milk house nearby, and another small house where a tenant or hired men may
occupy. The creek runs fifteen or twenty inches of water the driest time of the year, formed from
springs at the source and along the banks, which increases it to two or three times the amount
during the fore part of the season. (8) From this land Mr. Wyatt was able to produce one hundred
eighty (180) tons of hay planted on seventy-five to eighty (75-80) acres. Local markets remained
strong for hay and oat crops. Some farmers started planting fruit orchards, consisting mainly of
peaches and apricots. (9)
By 1873, Dry Creek Valley had enough families with children to support a school. In 1878 the
school housed twenty-nine (29) children between the ages of five (5) and twenty one (21). The
valley's early population supported a second school by 1918, the Stack Rock school. The Stack
Rock community consisted of ten (10) families located north of Dry Creek Valley. At one time
nineteen (19) students attended the Stack Rock School.
(10) Both schools served as the cores of community social life. Unlike other small agricultural
settlements, Dry Creek Valley did not support a store or a church. Social exchange occurred
through shared farming tasks, visiting neighbors and school activities.
Dry Creek Valley agriculturists practiced dry farming supplemented by readily available water.
Farmers used ditches from the creek to irrigate their crops. Other farmers took advantage of local
artesian wells. Although the Dry Creek Valley residents did experience some drought years, they
managed to make a basic living from dry farming. Large-scale irrigation never occurred in Dry
Creek Valley. An 1889 newspaper account discusses the need for irrigation:



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 484
On Dry Creek, the difficulty is more serious, as there is really but little water flowing in the creek
this season, and the greater portion of it is absorbed by the sand before it reaches the farms to be
supplied. This state of things proves the necessity of some arrangement by which the waters of the
streams could be held in reservoirs and distributed as needed. (11)
Dry Creek Valley continued to support stockmen and farmers through the turn of the century.
Census records from 1870 to 1920 indicate that the majority of Dry Creek residents made a living
by growing oats, barley and grain. They also raised horses, cattle, hogs and turkeys. Fruit
production flourished until the 1930s. Peaches, prunes and cherries were successfully grown
throughout the valley. The 1910 census indicated that farming remained the main occupation of
almost all Dry Creek Valley family members. (12)
Basque Influence: A small knot of Basque families began to make Dry Creek Valley their home
by 1910. Basques began immigrating to California in the 1860s from Spain. By the late 1870s
many Basque men had worked their way north to Nevada, Oregon and Idaho working as herders
for the expanding sheep industry. Some Basques eventually purchased their own farms and
ranches. They offered jobs, homes and moral support to other Basques coming into the country.
The Echeverria family exemplified this pattern. Pedro Echeverria arrived in the United States in
1900. In 1910 he owned property in Dry Creek Valley. Family members and other Basques worked
as laborers on his farm. Yladio Echanove came to the U.S. in 1911 and was listed on the 1920
census as a boarder with the Echeverria family. Eventually the Echanove family bought the
Echeverria property. Members of the Echanove family currently live in Dry Creek Valley. (13)
After 1900, local newspapers seldom mentioned the Dry Creek area beyond notices of births,
deaths, and club meetings. Dry Creek Valley's heyday had ended. When the 1860s' mining boom
ended, transportation routes changed and Dry Creek Valley was no longer centrally located. Only
Boise City remained as the main market for local farmers. Dryland wheat production boomed in
other southern Idaho communities from 1910 to 1923, but Dry Creek Valley farmers never
participated in any large-scale crop production. The area also lay outside lands included in the
federally funded Boise Irrigation Project, which promoted intensive cultivation of row crops.
Dryland farmers had to compete with the increased production and higher quality of irrigated hay
and grain. Aggressive promotion of irrigated lands and new communities caused settlement to shift
to the river valley floor, rather than up in the drier hills. There were still families who eked out a
living in Dry Creek Valley, continuing to farm small acreages and raise horses and cattle. (14)
A long-term agricultural depression and the onset of the Great Depression made life difficult for
most Dry Creek farmer stockmen. Several families moved away. Some older students dropped out
of school and worked to help their parents and siblings. The number of Dry Creek Valley school
students was cut in half during the 1930s, and its population never grew again. Natural disasters
also threatened Dry Creek Valley during the 1930s, particularly range fires and insect invasions.
The community pulled together to fend off these disasters. When the cheat grass-covered hills
turned into flames, local farmers used their field plows to create fire breaks around everyone's
property. The "Mormon Cricket" invasion of the late 1930s swept through the area, but Dry Creek
Valley crops escaped relatively unscathed. Anastasio Ostolasa remembered farm families beating
on pots and pans to scare away the ravenous crickets. (15)
"Gentleman Farmers:" "Gentleman farmers" from Boise also bought some Dry Creek Valley
farms for country living or for increased acreage. Fred Parsons, who bought the former Schick
property and adjacent acreages in the 1930s, was a retired cashier from Pacific National Bank. His
wife Anna Moore came from the well-known Christopher Moore family, president of Idaho First
National Bank. Parsons dabbled in agriculture and livestock and hired the Ostalosa family to


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 485
oversee the operation of his Dry Creek Valley farm. Constantino Ostolasa had previously worked
at the nearby Spring Valley Ranch. The Parsons lived on their Dry Creek Valley property and soon
made improvements to it. A young Anastasio Ostolasa helped his father Constantino plant locust
trees, which still shade the lane and dwellings. In the 1940s Parsons sold his Dry Creek Valley
holdings to Jack Dechambeau of Eagle, who used it to supplement his rangeland and feed.
Anastasio Ostolasa brought his war bride from Oregon to the farm and worked for the
Dechambeaus. He continued to live on the property until his recent death in August 1996. His
sisters and wife continue to live on the property. (16)
The Second World War and increased agricultural mechanization took its toll on the Dry Creek
Valley population. America's involvement in the war took many people out of rural communities
to contribute to the war effort. The war had broadened the world for many farm boys and girls and
introduced them to other ways of life and people.
With tractors and harvesters, it took fewer family members and hired hands to operate a farm. Dry
Creek Valley farmers' small acreages could barely compete with larger corporate operations. Both
local schools were closed by the 1940s, and students rode the bus to Boise schools.
While many people left rural communities like Dry Creek Valley, still others returned to continue
an agricultural lifestyle. Today there are still relatives of early Dry Creek Valley homesteaders
who make a portion of their living from the land, despite continuing ups and downs in the
agricultural business. More recent landowners moved there to simply enjoy the rural setting, within
relatively easy access to the amenities of city life. The Dry Creek Valley remains a quiet oasis in
Southwestern Idaho's sagebrush hills.

   End Notes:
     (1)   "The Idaho-Montana Boundary Legend," Idaho State Historical Society (hereafter
  ISHS) Reference Series, No. 156. Revised January 1966.
      (2)    "Local Brevities," Idaho Tri-Weekly Statesman, 20 September 1873, p. 3.
     (3)     Assessment Rolls, Ada County, Idaho, 1890, p. 239. On microfilm at the ISHS,
  Boise.
      (4)    Idaho Tri-Weekly Statesman, 23 October 1869, p. 3.
     (5)    Ada County Commission Records, 1881, Book A, p. 141-142. On microfilm at the
  ISHS, Boise.
      (6)    The Idaho Statesman, 1925. See also The Idaho World, February 1907, p. 6.
     (7)      See the Idaho Tri-Weekly Statesman, 9 September 1873, p. 3; see also 3 January
  1874, p. 3.
      (8)    "A. J. Wyatt's Farm," Ibid., 20 September 1873.
      (9)    Ibid., p. 3.
     (10) Ibid., 21 June 1878, p. 3. See also The Edith S. Hayes Collection, MS 492, ISHS
  Archives, Boise; Dorothy Stiff Wyman, Light Upon the Mountain (Bend, Oregon: Maverick
  Publications, 1989), p. 19; and field notes of conversation with Anastasio Ostolasa, 13 July
  1994, in authors' personal files.
      (11)   See the following article in "Fifty Years in the Statesman," Idaho Daily Statesman,


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 486
  3 September 1939, p. 8: "Water Supply cause of Row", (September 1889).
     (12) U.S. Bureau of the Census, Thirteenth Census of the United States, 1910
  Population, (Washington, D.C.: Government Printing Office, 1913), p. 282.
      (13) Information of Echeverria & Echanove in the "Fourteenth Census of the United
  States, 1920 Population," on microfilm at the ISHS.
       (14) See several issues of the Idaho Daily Statesman, 1910, for the changing emphasis to
  irrigated farming and the introduction of dryland wheat.
      (15) For descriptions of the Depression, fires and crickets near Stack Rock, see Dorothy
  Stiff Wyman's Light Upon the Mountain, p. 76. For descriptions of the same in the Dry Creek
  Valley, see field notes of conversation with Anastasio Ostalosa.
      (16) For information on Frank Parsons and his holdings on Dry Creek, see Metzker Map
  of Ada County, 1936, on file at the ISHS; James H. Hawley, History of Idaho, Vol. II
  (Chicago: Clarke Publishing Company, 1920), pp. 248-249; see also field notes of
  conversation with Anastasio Ostalosa.

8-13D-9-8: Slopes
The central portion of the Hidden Springs property is characterized by the relatively flat valley
floor and shallow, even slopes that are found throughout the Dry Creek Valley as it runs west
toward Highway 55. The creek and valley diagonally bisect the property into two (2) distinct
northern and southern portions that are quite different in slope orientation and configuration.
On the southern side of the property, toward the west, the valley floor gradually transitions into
moderate slopes as the foothills protrude in finger-like formations into the site. Between these
finger ridges are long, narrow valleys and gulches with moderate to steep sides. Most of the ridges
in this area have round, flat tops that gradually increase in slope as they move to the south and off
the property.
On the northern portion of the property, a more abrupt transition occurs from the valley floor into
steep slopes immediately north of Dry Creek Road. Above these wide south- facing slopes are
pockets of relatively flat land with a distinct "bowl" formation that runs east to west, parallel to
Currant Creek. North of Currant Creek, a broad, moderate south- facing slope continues again
north of the power line to a major peak with long backslopes that drop into the McFarland Creek
basin. The canyon that runs north and south along the eastern edge of the site, through which
Cartwright Road runs, has steep sides that start to diminish and flatten toward the north end of the
property.
Much of the slope area in Hidden Springs is less than twenty five percent (25%), which makes for
favorable building sites.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 487
   Figure 2-C




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 488
   8-13D-9-9:         Aspect/Views/Climate
   Aspect. The Hidden Springs area is dominated by broad, south and west facing slopes with
   high solar exposure in the northern portion of the property, north of Dry Creek Road. The
   exceptions to this condition are pockets of north and east facing slopes within the Currant
   Creek basin and the north facing slopes that drop into the McFarland Creek basin. The Dry
   Creek Valley is generally flat and open with varying degrees of solar exposure, depending
   upon tree cover and proximity to the foothills at the southwest portion of the site. The ridges
   and narrow valleys of the foothills that run in a north to south direction in the southwest portion
   of the property create long side slopes with a solar orientation to the east and west. Various
   pockets of a northern aspect here are attributed to the ends of the ridgelines and certain areas
   within the narrow gulches, between the ridges.
   Views. The views within the Hidden Springs property are generally open, up to the one
   hundred eighty-degree (180°) range throughout the upper elevations of the site. Hidden
   Springs is generally not visible from the Boise area. Views from the ridgelines on the southern
   portion of the site extend into Dry Creek Valley and northward to Bogus Basin.
   Climate. The climate and wind patterns of the Hidden Springs property are typical of the Boise
   region. The temperate climate and four seasons are influenced by storm fronts that originate
   in the Pacific Ocean. There are occasional winter temperature inversions with extended
   periods of fog and cold that cause air quality problems. There is an average twelve inches
   (12”) of precipitation. January precipitation averages one and six tenths (1.6) inches with thirty
   degree (30°) temperatures. The average July precipitation is one third (0.3) inches with
   temperatures in the range of eighty (80) to one hundred (100) degrees. It is not uncommon to
   have twenty (20) to thirty (30) days of no precipitation in the months of July and August.
   Typically, the area at this elevation receives a total of one and a half (1.5) to two (2) feet of
   snow during the winter months with snow staying on the ground for an average of five (5) to
   seven (7) days.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 489
   Figure 2-D




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 490
8-13D-9-10: Geologic Conditions
Geologic Overview. Portions of the geology in the Dry Creek area have been mapped in the past
by K.M. Hollenbaugh, 1972; Othberg and Burnham, 1990; Baker, 1991; and Burnham and Wood,
1992. The unconsolidated soil and rock that underlie the Hidden Springs property range in age
from Pliocene to Holocene, which is relatively recent in geological time. The Dry Creek area
occurs within a transition zone between fluvial (stream deposited) sediments and lacustrine (lake
deposited) sediments. Certain geologic events that occurred prior to the emplacement of the known
soil and rock in the area greatly influenced the types of deposition and geomorphology that is
characteristic of the area today. These earlier events include a long period of granitic intrusions,
regional uplift, and volcanism. In addition, evidence of large lake deposition and erosion are
evident in the lower elevations along Dry Creek. Wave cut benches are characteristic of the lower
foothill elevations along the south side of Dry Creek.
Ancestral streams carrying sediments from the adjacent uplands were also deposited near the lake
margins.
Coarse-grained sands were deposited along the stream channels and shores of the lake. Finer sands
and silts were carried down the Dry Creek drainage system. The sediments that were deposited are
collectively known as sediments of the Idaho Group. Because of the depositional complexity of
the sediments in the Boise foothills (which includes the Dry Creek area), recent lithostratigraphic
formation name changes within the Idaho Group have been reassigned the Terteling Springs
Formation. The formation consists of four (4) distinct lithologic members of which portions are
found in the study area.
Objective. The surficial geology shows the deposits within the study area and their general
relationships. The geology of an area constitutes the framework which influences the development
of other natural features. Soils developed from the weathering of the geologic units and both
surface and subsurface water flow are largely controlled by the geologic framework. Successful
planning and engineering development depends upon an understanding of the geology of the area,
as well as an understanding of physical properties of the soil and rock. The geologic map presented
in this report was compiled from known map sources and field reconnaissance and is a preliminary
guide to geologic units and features for the Hidden Springs area.
Faulting And Seismicity. Foothills faulting generally occurs in NW/SE and/or east- west trending
normal faults. Distinct separation of foothills and valley floor often make fault traces. The
exception in the Dry Creek area is separation of lithologic units or nonconformable lateral
extension of rock and soil formations. Splinter faults subparallel and often perpendicular to the
primary faults have helped define the present geomorphology of the area. Faulting in the foothills
is known to consist of single fault plains a few inches wide or fault zones, several feet to tens of
feet wide that are composed of many interconnected fault plains. Field observation collected
during preliminary site reconnaissance’s imply that Dry Creek may be structurally controlled.
Observations include linear correlation of primary structures such as contorted bedding plains, hot
springs, and unconformable bedding.
Woodward-Lundgren and Associates identified most foothill faults as inactive. According to
Woodward-Lundgren, there has not been historical movement of the major faults in the area within
the last five hundred thousand (500,000) years. The U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey in their
Seismic Risk Map (1969) and the Uniform Building Code (1982) assign the area to Zone 2B,
indicating moderate potential for earthquake damage. Zone 2 corresponds to a maximum


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 491
earthquake intensity of VII on the modified Mercalli intensity scale. Damage in the study area
would probably be caused by ground shaking due to fault displacement outside the study area.
Miller and Jones (1988) performed a probabilistic estimation of earthquake intensities for Idaho
based on the historic seismic record. They concluded that there is better than a ninety percent
(90%) probability that the maximum earthquake intensity will be less than VI for the foothills area
for a given fifty (50) year period.
Lithologic Map Units. The following lithologic descriptions are characteristic of the geologic
units present in the study area.
Biotite Granite And Granodiorite
Areas along the northern and northeastern area of the Hidden Springs property is underlain by
intrusive igneous rocks of the Idaho batholith. Biotite granite and granodiorite are the dominant
rock types. The granites are typically light gray and medium to coarse-grained. The fracture
spacing varies from a few inches to several feet. The granitics vary from slightly weathered to
decomposed. Differential weathering of the batholithic rocks have exposed large, rounded
outcroppings east of Cartwright Road north of Dry Creek.
Terteling Springs Formation.
The Terteling Springs Formation is a facies assemblage of sediments and sedimentary rock mostly
of lacustrine or lakeshore depositional environment. The base of the formation is mapped where
these sedimentary deposits rest upon a thick sequence of plagonite tuff and basalt, or upon rhyolite
or the granitic rock. The formation is composed of tan to light gray silts, sands, and clays.
Induration is moderate, although very dense, silica-cemented sandstone is locally present. The
silica cement was precipitated from hydrothermal ground water which moved through fault
conduits. Fracturing is not evident in the sand layers. Fracture spacing is not evident in the sand
layers. Fracture spacing in the sandstone ranges from six inches (6") to ten feet (10') or more. Some
minor amounts of poorly to well-sorted, light gray to tan sand with minor gravel and claystone
layer are locally present.
Undifferentiated Basalt.
A volcanic assemblage of tuffs, basalts and ash occurs beneath and interbedded with the Terteling
Springs Formation. The low shear strength of portions of this unit are often associated with
unstable slopes in the Boise foothills. The unit often contains expansive clays. The volcanic
assemblages are identified by dark brown soils with mud- cracked and fissured surfaces.
Intracanyon Terrace Gravel.
Fluvial sand and sandy gravel with subangular cobbles and boulders are characteristic of this
lithologic unit. These deposits form terraces along some of the gulches and also flat divides
between canyon/gulch near the margins of the foothill-valley environment. Induration and
stratification are relatively poor. These deposits represent stream and wave cut action of the Dry
Creek drainage.
Quaternary Alluvial Fan Deposits.
This unit is comprised of light gray to tan sand and gravel deposits. The sand and gravel is poorly
indurated and poorly stratified. Fracturing is not evident. The deposits are usually located near the
mouth of established drainages.
Landslide Deposits.
This unit is comprised of unsorted, unstratified rock and soil masses which have been deposited


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 492
by slumps, landslides, and debris flows. The particle size may range from clay to large boulders.
The ground surfaces are hummocky with flat lobate toes. This unit also includes the scar area from
which the soil and rock mass originated and displaced rock units which are not related to faulting.
The color is dependent upon the source material. Fractures are not evident. Slope failure is evident
in the study area, particularly north of Current Creek.
Recent Alluvium Deposits.
This lithologic unit consists of unconsolidated silt, sand and gravel deposits of the Dry Creek
drainage, Currant Creek, and McFarland Creek. Fractures are not evident. This unit also includes
recent flood plain deposits along Dry Creek.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 493
   Figure 2-E




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 494
8-13D-9-11: Soil Conditions
Soil Overview: The surficial soils of the Hidden Springs property are associated with two (2)
Idaho soil geomorphic provinces: the Northern Rocky Mountain province and the Malheur-Boise
Basin of the High Lava Plains subprovince of the Columbia Intermontane province. The diverse
topography throughout the project area has contributed to a highly variable soil morphology. The
U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service has identified twelve (12) soil
classifications for the area.
Objective: The recognition and/or prediction of soil behavior with respect to soil morphology is
paramount in selecting the correct avenue for land use planning.
Recognition of the diverse soil behavior is useful in adjusting land use, including the urbanization,
to the limitations and potentials of natural resources and the environment. Planners and others
using the soil data can evaluate the impact of specific land uses on the overall productivity of the
survey area or other broad planning areas and on land use patterns.
Soil Units: The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service (SCS) has identified
twelve (12) soil units for the Hidden Springs property. These units are listed below.

   Brent-Ladd                                        Ladd-Searles
   Cashmere                                          Lankbush-Brent
   Drax Loam                                         Payette-Quincy
   Gem Rock                                          Quincy-Brent
   Goose Creek                                       Searles-Rock
   Haw-Lankbush                                      Vanderhoff

Engineering Soils.
Table And Map: Table 1 provides engineering information related to the use of each soil unit as
it relates to building sites, sanitary facilities, construction material and water management. The
engineering data is based on SCS test data using known relationships between soil properties and
the behavior of soils in various engineering uses. The data presented in the table can be useful in
choosing alternative practices or general designs that will overcome unfavorable soil properties
and minimize soil-related failures.
However, it is important to understand these data do not eliminate the need for site specific
investigations, testing, and analysis.
The accompanying soils map provides a broad perspective of the soils and associated topography
as well as the general diversification of the soil morphology for the Hidden Springs property.
This preliminary screening of soils properties provides a relatively normal (without unusual
difficulty) geotechnical framework. Within the confines of regulatory oversight, good design
practice and good construction technique there are no soils characteristics that would preclude
development as planned.
1995 Field Observations and Soils Logs: Table 2: Soil logs provide a summary of the actual soil
observations started in 1995, first as excavations for soils logs and also as observation wells for

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 495
long-term observation of ground water level. Since the first series of observation wells, additional
test pits and observation wells have been installed.
Table 3 1 : Ground water depth observation is a log of the depth to ground water at various
observation wells and test pits. The soils map shows the approximate locations for the original
observation wells and subsequent test pits and new observation wells. Several important
conclusions can be drawn from the soil information mentioned above.
      The soils in the valley floor up to the toe of slopes are suited to both individual and
       community subsurface treatment systems (subject to the normal design constraints).
      Soils classification for the purpose of subsurface treatment systems is C-2.
      The relatively fine-grained soils and substantial depth to ground water at the base of the
       slopes offer several good options for community subsurface treatment systems.
      The soils characteristics at the base of the slopes should provide for very high, equivalent
       to tertiary, treatment of domestic wastewater.
One Hundred Twenty Acre Annexation Area. The U.S. department of agriculture natural resources
conservation service has identified four (4) soil units for the one hundred twenty (120) acre
annexation area, which has been reduced to ninety-seven (97) acres due to the transfer to twenty-
three (23) acres to the Cartwright Ranch planned community in 2007. These units are listed below
and are characterized in table 1A of this Section:
   Pierce Park
   Shadoval
   Polecat
   Quailridge




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 496
Figure 2-F-a



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 497
Figure 2-F-b

 TABLE 1
 ENGINEERING SOILS TABLE



                           498
  Soil     USDA Soil      Unified Soil        Percent Passing     Liquid   Plasticity   Perme-      Soil      Shrink     Potential
 Name       Texture      Classification       Sieve No. (Avg)     Limit     Index       ability   Reaction     Swell      Frost
                                          4      10    40   200                                     pH       Potential    Action

Brent-     Loam, Silt    CL-ML            70-   70-   25-   5     10-60    NP-25        .02-20    7.4-8.4    Low to      Low to
Ladd       Loam, Sandy   CH-SM            100   90    95                                                     Moderate    Moderate
           Clay Loam,
           Gravelly      GP-SM
           Clay Loam
Cashmere   Sandy Loam,   SM               80-   80-   50-   15-   20-30    NP-5         2.0-20    6.1-7.8    Low         Moderate
           Loamy Sand                     100   100   75    45
Drax       Loam, Sandy   CL-ML            100   90-   85-   55-   20-30    5-10         0.2-2.0   6.6-9.0    Low         Moderate
Loam       Loam to                              100   100   90
           Silty Clay
           Loam


Gem        Gravelly      SM, CL, CH       65-   55-   40-   35-   20-65    NP-45        0.2-2.0   6.1-9.0    Low to      Moderate
Rock       Clay Loam     ML, GM-GC        100   100   100   95                                               High
           Clay, Clay
           Loam,
           Gravelly
           Silty Clay
           Loam,
           Loam,
           Gravelly
           Loam,
           Unweathered
           Bedrock
Goose      Loam, Sandy   CL-ML, CL        100   100   85-   55-   20-40    5-20         0.2-20    6.6-8.4    Moderate    Moderate
Creek      Loam to                                    100   85
           Clay
Haw-       Loam, Sandy   ML, CL-ML,       85-   85-   45-   5-    20-30    NP- 15       0.2-      6.1- 9.0   Low to      Moderate
Lankbush   Loam, Clay    CL, SM-SC,       100   100   100   90                          720                  Moderate
           Loam, Sandy   SP-SM
           Clay Loam,
           Loamy Sand,
           Sand
Ladd-      Loam,         ML, CL-ML,       25-   25-   15-   5-    20-40    NP-15        0.2-20    6.1-7.3    Low to      Moderate
Searles    Gravelly      CL, SM-SC,       100   100   100   90                                               Moderate
           Loam, Clay    GM-GC, GP-
           Loam, Sandy   GC
           Clay Loam,
           Sandy Loam,
           Gravelly
           Sandy
           Clayey
           Loam,
           Unweathered
           Bedrock




                                                                                                                         499
Soil Name    USDA Soil       Unified           Percent Passing      Liquid   Plasticity   Perme-      Soil      Shrink     Potential
              Texture          Soil            Sieve No. (Avg.)     Limit     Index       ability   Reaction     Swell      Frost
                             Classifi-    4       10    40    200                                     pH       Potential    Action
                              cation
Lankbush     Sandy Loam,     CL-ML,      40-      40-   25-   5-    10-60    NP-40        <0.06-    6.6-9.0    Low to      Low to
Brent        Sandy           CH,         100      100   100   90                          20                   High        Moderate
             Clayey          GM-
             Loam,           GP, SM,
             Clayey          SP-SM,
             Loam, Loam      SC
             Sand, Loamy
             Sand, Silt
             Gravelly Silt
             Loam,
             Gravelly
             Loam, Clay,
             Sandy Clay,
             Gravelly
             Clay Loam,
             Sand
Payette-     Sandy Loam,     SM,         60-      60-   35-   5-    20-30    NP-10        6.0-720   6.1-8.4    Low         Low to
Quincy       Gravelly        GM-         100      100   95    75                                                           Moderate
             Sandy Loam,     GC, CL-
             Coarse Sand,    ML,
             Loamy Sand,     CL-ML,
             Gravelly        SP-SM
             Loamy Sand
Quincy-      Gravelly        SM,         40-      40-   25-   5-    10-60    NP-40        <0.06-    6.1-8.4    Lo w to     Low
Brent        Loamy Sand,     CL-ML,      100      100   100   90                          20                   High
             Sandy Loam,     CH,
             Silt Loam,      GP-GM,
             Sandy Clay,     SP-SM
             Clay Loam,
             Sand,
             Gravelly
             Sand,
             Gravelly
             Clay Loam,
             Gravelly Silt
             Loam,
             Gravelly
             Loam
Searles-     Stony Loam,     ML,         30-      20-   20-   15-   30-40    NP-15        0.2-2.0   6.6-7.3    Low to      Moderate
Rock         Gravelly        CL-ML,      80       75    70    55                                               Moderate
             Clay Loam,      SM-SC
             Cobbly
             Loam,
             Unweathered
             Bedrock
Vanderhoff   Stony Loam,     ML,         80-      60-   40-   25-   20-30    NP-10        0.6-2.0   7.4-9.0    Low         Low
             Gravelly        CL-ML,      100      100   100   80
             Loam, Silt      SM-SC
             Loam, Sandy
             Loam,
             Weathered
             Bedrock




                                                                                                                           500
     TABLE 1A
     ENGINEERING SOILS TABLE

   Soil        USDA          Unified         Percent Passing     Liquid   Plasticity     Perme-      Soil      Shrink     Potential
  Name          Soil          Soil           Sieve No. (Avg)     Limit     Index         ability   Reaction     Swell      Frost
               Texture      AASHTO      4       10    40   200                         Inch/Hour     pH       Potential    Action

Pierce        Course       SC           100    75–   50–   40–   25–30    5–10         2.0–6.0     6.6–7.8    Low to      Low to
Park (244)    Sandy                            100   60    50                                                 moderate    moderate
              Loam
                           SM
              Sandy
              Loam         SC-SM

              Sandy
              Clay         A1, A2
              Loam

              Gravelly
              Sandy
              Loam
Shadoval      Silt loam    CL           100    95–   85–   75–   25–60    5–40         0.6–2.0     6.6–8.4    Low to      Moderate
(315)                                          100   90    85                                                 high
              Silty clay   CH
              Loam

              Clay         CL-ML
              Loam         A4, A6, A7
Polecat       Silt loam    CL           100    95–   90–   85–   25–45    5–20         0.6–2.0     6.6–8.4    Low to      Moderate
(316)                                          100   95    90                                                 moderate
              Silty clay   CL-ML
              loam
                           A4, A6, A7
              Clay
              Loam
Quailridge    Coarse       SC           0–     75–   60–   50–   25–50    25–40        2.0–20.0    6.6–7.8    Low to      Moderate
(358)         Sandy                     10     100   90    75                                                 moderate
              Loam
                           SC-SM
              Sandy
              Clay
              Loam

              Gravelly     A2, A6
              Sandy
              Clay
              Loam


          Table 2
          Soils Logs - 1995




                                                                                                                          501
Estimated           Pit #OW1           Estimated      Pit # OW2        Estimated           Pit #OW3
 5% Slope                              3% Slope                        8% Slope
0-28"       Clay loam (30% clay),     0-36"        Clay loam          0-14"        Silty clay loam (30%
            10YR 3/2, many fine and                (28% clay),                     clay), 10YR 3/2, many
            few medium roots, C-2                  10YR 2/2,                       fine roots, C-2
            Design Soil Subgroup                   common fine
                                                   roots, few                      Very dense silty lake
            Clay loam (35% clay),                  medium and         14-168"      sediments, very slowly
            10YR 3/2, many fine       36-56"       course roots, C-                permeable to
28-54"      roots C-2                              1                               impermeable, gleyed and
                                                                                   mottled (mottled are
            Silty clay (45% clay),                 Clay loam                       thought to be "relic" and
            10YR 3/4, few fine                     (30%+ clay),                    not indicative of present
            roots, unsuitable                      10YR 3/2,                       drainage)
66-92"                                             common fine
            Sandy clay loam, (30%                  and few                         -no free water (water
            clay), 10YR 4/6, no                    medium                          table) to a 168" depth
            roots, C-1                             roots, C-2

92-127"     Silt loam (15% clay),                  -soil is
            compacted, 2.5Y 5/4                    saturated below
            matrix, 7.5YR 5/6                      150", but no
            mottles, no roots, B-2                 free water
127-168"                                           (water table) to
            -no free water (water                  174"
            table) to a 168" depth




                                                                                                            502
Table 2 (cont.)

  Estimated          Pit #OW7        Estimated               Pit #OW8a                 Estimated     Pit #OW8
    2-3%                             4% Slope                                          4% Slope
    Slope
 0-16"            Sandy loam        0-17"        Silty clay loam (30% clay),          0-18"        Silt loam
                  (18% clay),                    10YR 3/2, many fine and few                       (20% clay),
                  10YR 3/3,                      medium roots, C-2                                 10YR 3/3,
                  many fine and                                                                    many fine
                  few medium                     Silty clay loam (35% clay),                       roots, B-2
 16-34"           roots, B-1                     2.5YR 4/2, few fine and              18-36"
                                    17-28"       medium roots, C-2                                 Silt loam
                  Loamy coarse                                                                     (22% clay),
                  sand (5% clay),                Silty loam (15% clay), very                       10YR 3/2,
                  10YR 3/3, few                  compacted lake sediments, 5Y                      common fine
 34-58"           fine roots, A-                 5/4 matrix, 7.5YR 5/6 mottles        36-55"       roots, B-2
                  2b                28-94+"      appear to be "relic", unsuitable
                                                                                                   Silt loam
                  Clay loam                      -no free water (water table) to                   (25% clay),
 58-82"           (30% clay),                    94"                                               10YR 3/3,
                  10YR 3/4, few                                                       55-168"      common fine
                  fine roots, C-2                -this pit was at the toe of an old                roots, B-2
                                                 land form and is underlain by
 82-168"          Sandy clay                     thick, dense lake sediments                       Silt loam
                  loam (22%                                                                        (20% clay),
                  clay), 10YR                    *no monitoring pipe was                           10YR 5/4,
                  4/4, no                        installed in this pit.                            common fine
                  roots, C-1                                                                       roots, B-2

                  Silt loam, (20%                                                                  -no free water
                  clay), 10YR                                                                      (water table)
                  5/4, no                                                                          to 168"
                  roots, B-2

                  -no mottles or
                  free water
                  (water table to
                  168"




                                                                                                              503
Table 2 (cont.)

 Estimated          Pit #OW4          Estimated        Pit #OW5           Estimated          Pit #OW6
 3% Slope                             7% Slope                            3% Slope
0-16"        Silty clay loam (35%    0-22"        Silt loam (25%         0-11"        Silt loam (22% clay),
             clay), 10YR 3/4, many                clay), 10YR 3/3,                    10YR 3/4, many fine
             fine roots, C-2                      many fine and few                   roots, B-2
                                                  medium roots, B-2
             Silty clay loam (30%                                                     Silty clay loam (35%
16-34"       clay), 2.5Y 4/4, few    22-41"       Silty clay loam        11-20"       clay), 10 YR 5/6,
             fine roots C-2                       (35% clay), 10YR                    common fine roots, C-
                                                  3/4, common fine                    2
             Dense, silty lake                    roots, C-2
             sediments with 5-10%                                                     Sandy clay loam (30%
34-51"       silty clay loam in      41-65"       Silty clay loam        20-35"       clay), 10YR 5/4, few
             fractures, few fine                  (35%+ clay), 10YR                   fine roots, C-1
             roots, C-2 to                        5/4, common fine
             unsuitable                           roots, C-2                          Loamy coarse sand
                                                                                      (<5% clay),
             Very dense lake                      Loamy coarse sand      35-52"       variegated color, no
             sediments,              65-72"       (<5% clay),                         roots, A-2b
51-168"      impermeable                          variegated color,
             layer, unsuitable                    no roots, A-2b                      Thin, weakly
                                                                                      cemented hardpan, no
             -no free water to a                  Very fine sandy        52-55"       roots, unsuitable
             168" depth              72-90"       loam (15% clay),
                                                  2.5Y 4/4 matrix,                    Silt loam (15% clay),
                                                  7.5YR 5/4 mottles,                  2.5Y 5/4 matrix,
                                                  no roots,                           7.5YR 5/4 mottles, no
                                                  compacted, B-2        55-120"       roots, B-2

                                                  Loamy coarse sand                   Silt loam (10% clay),
                                     90-110"      (<5% clay),                         compacted lake
                                                  variegated color,                   sediments, 2.5Y 5/4,
                                                  no roots, A-2b                      no mottles, no
                                                                        120-180"      roots, C-2
                                                  Coarse sandy loam
                                     110-168"     (10% clay), 2.5Y                    -no free water (water
                                                  5/4 matrix, 5YR                     table) to 180"
                                                  4/4 mottles, no
                                                  roots, B-1                          -mottles below 55"
                                                                                      appear to be "relic"
                                                  -no free water, but
                                                  mottled below 72"
                                                  (possibly "relic"
                                                  mottles)




                                                                                                             504
 Table 2 (cont.)

   Estimated              Pit #OW9              Estimated            Pit #OW10              Estimated     Pit #OW11
   5% Slope                                       2-3%                                      4% Slope
                                                  Slope
  0-8"             Clay loam (30% clay),       0-28"        Loam (25% clay), 10YR          0-28"        Sandy loam
                   10YR 3/3 many fine                       3/3, common fine and few                    (18% clay),
                   and few medium                           medium roots, B-2                           10YR 4/4,
                   roots, C-1                                                                           common fine
                                                            Clay loam (30% clay),                       and few
  8-24"            Clay loam (35% clay),       28-59"       10YR 3/4, few fine                          medium
                   10YR 4/6 many fine                       roots, C-1                     28-70"       roots, B-1
                   roots, C-2
                                                            Loam (25% clay), 10YR                       Sandy clay
  24-36"           Sandy loam (15%             59-108"      5/4, no roots, B-2                          loam (25%
                   clay), 10YR 5/4,                                                                     clay), 10YR
                   common fine roots, B-                                                                4/6, common
                   1                                        Silt loam (25% clay), 2.5Y     70-155"      fine and few
                                                            4/4 matrix, 10YR 5/6                        medium
  36-75"           Loamy coarse sand           108-115"     mottles, no roots, B-2                      roots, C-1
                   (<5% clay),
                   variegated color, no                     Silty clay loam (35% clay),    155-174"     Sandy loam
                   roots, lens of silt loam                 2.5Y 4/4 matrix, 10YR 5/6                   (10% clay),
                   about 4" thick, A-2b                     mottles, no roots, C-2                      10YR 5/4, no
                                               115-150"                                                 roots, B-1
                   Silt loam (20% clay),                    Silty clay (40% clay), 2.5Y
  75-168"          2.5Y 7/4, no roots,                      5/4, no mottles, unsuitable                 Silty clay
                   slightly compacted, B-                                                               loam (30%
                   2                                        -free water (water table) at                clay), 2.5Y 4/4
                                                            120" depth                                  matrix, 7.5YR
                                              150-168"                                                  5/6 mottles, no
                                                                                                        roots, C-1

                                                                                                        -no free water
                                                                                                        (water table)
                                                                                                        to 174" depth


   Notes:
   1. See Section 8-13D-21 of this Article.

8-13D-9-12: Surface Water Hydrology
Hydrology Overview. The Dry Creek surface water hydrology system is derived from both
artificial and natural sources. The artificial sources are derived through unused irrigation waters
and excess water pumped to facilitate the needs of local livestock. The natural recharge sources
include seasonal precipitation (average is 0.24 acre-feet per acre during growing season), and
discharge of springs and seeps along Dry Creek and its tributaries.
Source fluctuations, especially seasonally, have had an effect on the spatial variation in local
hydraulic conditions along the major drainage and have an important role in determining the
controlling processes involved with local flood processes, resulting flood features, and subsequent
erosional attributes. In addition, ancestral hydraulic processes have contributed to a diverse
depositional morphology, especially along Dry Creek.
The principal hydrologic feature in the study area is the Dry Creek drainage basin. The basin drains
approximately sixty (60) square miles of intermountain uplands. Gauging station records from


                                                                                                                   505
1953 through 1968 show peak discharges range from three thousand five hundred (3,500) to four
thousand seven hundred (4,700) acre- feet of water for the basin that includes the Hidden Springs
project area. The peak flows appear to be concentrated from February through April. The exception
is occasionally January shows moderately high flows.
Floodways. Encroachment on the established floodplain, such as structures and fills, increases the
concern of the effects from localized flooding. One aspect of floodplain management involves
balancing the economic gain from floodplain development against the resulting increase of flood
constraints. Floodway identification is a useful tool to assist local community development in
proper floodway management as it relates to land use planning. The floodway delineated in this
study was computed from Currant Creek east along Dry Creek using Federal Emergency
Management Agency/U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, hydrologic engineering analyst protocol.
Peak flood discharges were determined for the ten (10), fifty (50), and one hundred (100)-year
events for the Dry Creek drainage. Discharge rates and flow frequency information was obtained
from gauging stations located approximately two (2) miles west of the study area. The results of
the review show the ten (10), and fifty (50)-year flood events will probably be contained in the
present Dry Creek channel. The one hundred (100)-year event will probably overtop the present
creek channel up to an average of approximately three hundred feet (300') lateral distance from
the creek centroid. The accompanying map shows the flood plain boundary for the ten (10), fifty
(50), and one hundred (100)-flood events. The boundary locations are an integral part of effective
long- term land use planning.
Natural Springs. The diverse depositional environment associated with Dry Creek has contributed
to unique conditions that promote artesian flow at a number of locations along Dry Creek within
the Hidden Springs property boundary. Approximately nine (9) natural springs are clustered near
the southeast corner of Section 31, the northwest corner of Section 5 and the southwest corner of
Section 32, Township 5 North, Range 2 East.
Some diversion of spring flow has been attempted during the past for agricultural purposes,
however, for the most part the springs have remained undeveloped. Flow of the springs is often
intermittent and depends largely on seasonal precipitation and local water recharge. The most
likely explanation for the springs and their historic characteristic is that they are fed by recharge
from precipitation, upstream irrigation, and snowmelt from mountainous runoff generally from
slopes to the north. Ancient streambeds (visible on current aerial photographs) probably transport
the water from upstream surface and subsurface sources. The identification of shallow ground
water areas is paramount in effective land use planning, especially during foundation engineering
for residential development. The areas that have natural springs present are identified on the
accompanying map. Some portions of these springs and the Dry Creek riparian area are wetlands
areas.
Surface Water Recharge. Every year some sections of Dry Creek do in fact dry up. Various
upstream reaches dry up while other reaches (benefiting from upstream recharge through shallow
ground water) continue to flow. These historic characteristics provide a glimpse of the relative
complexity and interrelationship between surface water and ground water.
8-13D-9-13: Ground Water
Ground water in the Hidden Springs area is found in permeable sedimentary aquifers and in
fractured rock aquifers. The fractured rock aquifers appear to be limited to the slopes on the north
side of Dry Creek. Depth to ground water varies, and ranges from a few feet below ground surface


                                                                                                 506
along Dry Creek, to more than one hundred feet (100') below ground surface in upland locations.
Tables 2 and 3 provide actual soils logs and ground water depth data for a portion of the valley
floor in Hidden Springs.
Hydrogeology. The Hidden Springs area geology is described in detail in a previous report as part
of this Section. Ground water characteristics of the local hydrogeologic units are discussed below.
      Alluvium. Recent alluvium in the Dry Creek valley consists of unconsolidated sand, gravel,
       and silt that has been eroded from nearby uplands and deposited by Dry Creek and tributary
       streams. Thickness of the alluvium is generally less than fifty feet (50'). Ground water from
       the alluvium has been tapped by shallow wells for irrigation and domestic use.
      Terteling Springs Formation. The Terteling Springs formation is composed of a layered
       sequence of lakebed sediments - primarily sand, sandstone, silt, clay, and mudstone.
       Saturated sand and sandstone layers within the Terteling Springs formation act as
       productive aquifers. Domestic and irrigation wells within the project area vicinity tap
       aquifers within the Terteling Springs formation. Clay, silt, and mudstone layers act as
       aquitards, restricting the movement of ground water. Clay, silt, and mudstone sediments
       are believed to be the predominant saturated sediments south of Dry Creek.
      Volcanic Rocks. Volcanic rocks within the project area consist primarily of basalt flows.
       Most of these volcanics have relatively low permeability and are not considered to be
       significant aquifers, although some ground water production has been reported from basalt
       aquifers in areas of the foothills.
      Granite. Cretaceous-age granitic rocks of the Idaho Batholith are exposed within the
       Currant Creek drainage, east of Cartwright Road. These rocks generally have very low
       porosity and permeability and do not serve as productive aquifers.
Geothermal. Low temperature geothermal wells (85-110°F) have been drilled in the Dry Creek
area, both east and west of the Hidden Springs project area. These wells tap aquifers found at depths
of less than one thousand feet (1,000'). Warm ground water (>85°F) is likely to be found below
about five hundred feet (500') beneath the Dry Creek Valley.
Ground waters with temperatures in excess of eighty-five degrees Fahrenheit (85°F) (i.e., low-
temperature geothermal waters) are generally restricted from development for municipal and
irrigation uses by the 1982 Idaho Geothermal Resources Act. In addition, water temperatures in
excess of eighty-five degrees Fahrenheit (85°F) are not desirable for domestic use due to aesthetics,
chemical composition and increased potential for bacterial contamination. As a result, warm
ground waters are probably not available nor desirable for Hidden Springs water supply
development.
Ground Water Flow. Within the project area, shallow ground water flow likely follows
topography, with Dry Creek acting as the drain for ground water from upland areas.
The depth to ground water data and soils logs presented in Tables 2 and 3 confirm the notion that
Dry Creek acts as a drain for upstream events. Clearly the shallow ground water flow direction has
component vectors both down the valley parallel to Dry Creek and perpendicular toward Dry
Creek. It is not clear if deep ground water flow is parallel to Dry Creek, or south toward the Boise
River. Local ground water flow in the Hidden Springs area is probably influenced by geologic
units and structure, with preferential movement through higher permeability materials in old
streambeds and along fault-related fracture paths.



                                                                                                 507
Groundwater Recharge and Discharge. Recharge of the local ground water system is derived
primarily from leakage of Dry Creek and its tributary streams and from direct infiltration of
precipitation. Additional recharge is derived from infiltration of flood irrigation water diverted
from Dry Creek. Total annual ground water recharge has not been determined for the project area
but may be substantial during those months when Dry Creek is carrying snowmelt.
Ground water discharge currently occurs at domestic and irrigation wells, at springs, and through
streambeds within the gaining reaches of Dry Creek and Currant Creek. Surface water and ground
water are generally in direct hydraulic connection in the vicinity of springs and in the gaining
reaches of Dry Creek and tributary streams.
During periods without direct runoff of precipitation or snowmelt, the flowing reaches of Dry
Creek are probably a reflection of the local water table. Many of these reaches dry up during the
summertime, suggesting a seasonal lowering of the local water table at that time.
Aquifer Hydraulics. Deep aquifer hydraulics within the study area are not known and will need
to be determined as part of a future test well program. Aquifer hydraulics in the lower Dry Creek
area, west of the Hidden Springs project, were calculated following a thirty (30)-day pumping test
of a well located approximately two (2) miles southwest of the junction of Highway 55 and Dry
Creek Road (Feast, 1991 and Baker, 1991). This well was pumped at an average rate of seven
hundred forty-three (743) gallons per minute. Draw down in the pumping well was eight one feet
(81’) after thirty (30) days of pumping. Draw down in observation wells ranged from three and
eight tenths feet (3.8') at a well eight hundred feet (800’) from the pumping well to one feet (1’) at
wells two thousand three hundred (2,300) and three thousand six hundred (3,600) feet from the
pumping well. Based upon the response of the observation wells, aquifer transmissivities in the
range of thirty-three thousand (33,000) to ninety-two thousand (92,000) ft2/day were calculated.
The calculated storage coefficient ranged from six thousandths (0.0006) to eight tenths (0.08),
indicating semi-confined conditions.
Given the distance and changes in geologic conditions, the aquifer hydraulic characteristics in the
Hidden Springs project area cannot be directly inferred from the characteristics in the Lower Dry
Creek area.
Ground Water Quality. Analyses of water samples from wells in the vicinity of the project area
are reported by Parliman (1983) and Baker (1991). These analyses include data for both warm
water and cold-water aquifers in the Dry Creek Valley. Based on these data, ground water from
deep cold-water aquifers in the Hidden Springs project area is anticipated to be good quality for
domestic use, with moderate levels of hardness and no water quality parameters in excess of EPA
maximum contaminant levels (MCLs). Geothermal aquifers are also anticipated to be of good
quality, with the exception of fluoride concentrations which may exceed EPA MCLs.
The shallow alluvial aquifer is often in direct hydraulic connection with the surface water flow of
Dry Creek and as a result is not sufficiently protected from surface contaminants for domestic
consumption. For that reason, the shallow alluvial aquifer is not as desirable for domestic use as
deeper, more protected aquifers of the Terteling Springs Formation. Well logs suggest that clay
layers should provide protection from surface and surficial activity for wells tapping aquifers
below one hundred feet (100').
Existing Ground Water Development. Existing wells within the project area produce ground
water primarily for domestic and stock water uses, with some minor irrigation uses. Wells outside


                                                                                                  508
       of the project area produce water for agricultural irrigation and space heating, in addition to
       domestic and stock water.
       Reported well yields in the Dry Creek Valley range from over two thousand (2,000) gallons per
       minute (gpm) to less than five (5) gpm. In general, the higher yield wells are located in the valley
       floor, west of the project site. The higher yield wells tap sand aquifers within the Terteling Springs
       Formation and the lower part of the recent alluvium. The low yield wells are typically located in
       either the granite foothills north and northeast of the site or in the thick blue clay sediments south
       of the site.
       Documented Water Level Declines. There are no long-term ground water hydrographs for wells
       within the project area. The closest long-term hydrograph is for well 05N-01E-34DBB1, located
       in the Dry Creek Valley approximately three (3) miles west of the project. This hydrograph has a
       period of record of nearly thirty (30) years. Baker (1991) evaluated the hydrograph of this well and
       found no significant decline in recent years.

          Table 3
          Groundwater Depth Observations

Observation   5-12-   5-28-     7-    8-17-     9-23-95       11-   1-22-   3-9-   3-15-   4-    6-21-    6-   7-16-96        9-
 Well Or       95      95       2-     95                     26-    96      96     96     7-     96     23-                  4-
 Test Pit                       95                            95                           96            96                   96
Observation   5-12-   5-28-     7-    8-17-   9-23-    11-     1-   3-9-     3-    4-7-     6-   6-23-    7-         9-4-96
 Well Or       95      95       2-     95      95     26-95   22-    96     15-     96     21-    96     16-
 Test Pit                       95                            96            96             96            96
OW1-168       Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Dry     –      Dry     –     Dry     –     Dry (167")
OW2-174       Damp    Damp      Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Damp    –      Damp    –     Damp    –     Dry (172")
OW3-168       Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Dry     –      Dry     –     Dry     –     Dry (170")
OW4-168       Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Dry     –      Dry     –     Dry     –     Dry (162")
OW5-168       Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Dry     –      Dry     –     Dry     –     Dry (153")
OW6-180       Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Dry     –      Dry     –     Dry     –     Dry (178")
OW7-168       Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Dry     –      Dry     –     Dry     –     Dry (166")
OW8a-94       Dry     No Pipe
OW8-169       Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Dry     –      Dry     –     Dry     –     Dry (172")
OW9-168       Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     Dry   Dry     –      Dry     –     Dry     –     Dry (150")
OW10-168      120     146       141   Damp    Damp    Damp    Dry   Damp    –      114     –     114     –     129" (Bot-
                                                                                                               168 Dry)
OW11-174      Dry     Dry       Dry   Dry     Dry     Dry     –     –       –      –       –     –       –     Dry
                                                                                                               (171")TP1204
                                                                                                               0–––72"
TP2                                                                         21     26      30    38      –     42"
TP3                                                                         2      16      18    22      –     17"
TP4                                                                         16     28      26    32      –     32"
TP5                                                                         45     52      57    52      –     60"
TP6                                                                         62     70      60    70      –     77"
TP7                                                                         58     72      62    74      –     82"



                                                                                                                509
TP8    16     23    –   –   –     33"
TP9    15     23    –   –   –     53"
TP10   29     32    –   –   –     (75") Damp
TP11   >144   >96   –   –   –     59"
TP12   >180   –     –   –   –     –
TP13   >96    –     –   –   –     –
TP14   94     76    –   –   –     77"
TP15   –      –     –   –   –     33"
TP16   31     42    –   –   –     45"OW20688
                                  9"
OW21                        61    57"
OW22                        50    77"
OW23                        49    72"
OW24                        60    76"
OW25                        110   111"
OW26                        56    99"
OW27                        48    (55") Dry




                                   510
   Figure 2-G


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 511
8-13D-9-14: Geotechnical Characterization
Development of the geotechnical constraints characterization was designed to help recognize
factors inherent to natural features which would potentially affect project planning, development
and construction. The Boise foothills are prone to some geotechnical constraints which are
characterized by slope failure, over-steepened slopes, excess hillside erosion and uncontrolled
flooding.
Slope stability and expansive soils associated with the Boise foothill's volcanic assemblage as a
geologic unit is known for its potential for both shallow (translational) and deep-seated (rotational)
slope failures. The lower stratigraphic sequence of the volcanic assemblage is characteristic of low
shear strength, especially along interface clay layers within the lower Terteling Springs Formation.
The expansive (swelling) soils are readily recognized by the chocolate brown color and mud-
cracked surface, and occurrence of these soils is confined to the outcrop area of the volcanic
assemblage. It is believed clayey soils in these areas may have excessive low shear strength when
saturated. In addition, the clays tend to have poor drainage, and some are moderately expansive.
Objective. The purpose of this analysis is to identify geotechnical-related constraints associated
with the Hidden Springs area and compile the constraint information into a useful nontechnical
map form for use by planners to guide future development. The data and maps generated by this
study will aid in the formation of planning and development guidelines and construction standards
that will:
       1. Minimize the detrimental effect of natural constraints to the health, safety, and general
          welfare of the Hidden Springs project in individual site acquisition and/or development
          of real property; and
       2. Encourage the most beneficial use of selected development areas and productive
          development of sites within each area.
Geotechnical
Constraint/Slope Maps. The geotechnical hazards map is a compilation and analysis of all
available data that may identify potential natural constraints. As such, the natural constraints that
have been identified are minor.
The slope map and description included in this Section illustrates and describes areas categorized
by the following slopes:
      0-5 percent
      6-10 percent
      11-15 percent
      16-20 percent
      21-25 percent
      over 25 percent
Geotechnical Constraints Classification. The following constraint categories have been
developed as a general guideline for general planning and development at Hidden Springs.
High Constraints.
Development of these areas will require more detailed study. Characteristic of severe slope failure,
high ground water, over-steepened slopes, and rock topple.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 512
Due to the fact that the basis for this classification is generalized and from secondary sources, the
development and platting process as described in Section 4 will require more detailed planning at
a site-specific level. At that time, specific building envelopes and lotting criteria will be established
to avoid or mitigate identified hazards.
Moderate Constraints.
These areas can be developed with some limitations and/or restrictions. These areas may include
ancestral slope failure, steep slopes, some swelling or fat clays. The restrictions placed due to the
potential hazards are usually not serious enough to prevent development.
Low Constraints.
These areas can be developed. Little or no development restrictions are associated with these areas.
These areas are located primarily south of Dry Creek and Currant Creek.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 513
   Figure 2-H



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 514
8-13D-9-15: Vegetation
General Vegetation. The Hidden Springs site is composed of three (3) general vegetative zones:
      The moderate to steep slopes, ridges and gulches that are covered with sagebrush grass
       vegetation;
      The Dry Creek Valley bottomland, which has been converted to agricultural uses; and
      The narrow riparian zones along Currant Creek, McFarland Creek and Dry Creek.
The narrow riparian zones are fairly lush and dominated by large woody species including birch,
various willows and red osier dogwood. Hackberry and chokecherry occur in the lower to midslope
positions. Forbs includes those that are commonly associated with the foothill’s environment.
These are miner's lettuce, cleavers, Clematis ligusticifolia, and poa species, sticky geranium,
stinging nettle, water pimpernel, cinquefoil and horsetail as well as sedges, grasses, bulrush and
alfalfa.
Rare Plants. Rare plants studies were conducted in 1994 and 1999 as part of the site analysis and
a report is included in the appendix to this community plan submittal. The reports discuss the
isolated populations of Aase's onion that occur in two (2) areas on the upper, south facing slopes
north of Dry Creek and at the southern portion of the property above Seaman's Gulch Road. In
addition, the 1999 study revealed additional populations of Aase's onion and Wilcox's primrose on
or immediately adjacent to the one hundred twenty (120) acre annexation area located at the
southern portion of the site, which has been reduced to ninety-seven (97) acres due to the transfer
of twenty-three (23) acres to the Cartwright Ranch planned community in 2007.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 515
   Figure 2-I


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 516
8-13D-9-16: Wildlife Resources
Wildlife resources exist on or near the project site. Sitings indicate populations of big game on the
property are relatively limited compared to the rest of the foothills area, but small game is abundant.
A general overview of these resources follows.
Big Game. A resident herd of mule deer, approximately six to ten (6-10) animals, utilizes the
property, most often seen on the slopes north of Dry Creek Road and the agricultural bottoms along
the Dry Creek Valley. The property also serves as winter range for another twenty to thirty (20-
30) deer, depending on the severity of the winter. More important winter range exists to the east
between Rocky Canyon Road and Highway 21, where hundreds of deer are spread out along the
foothills in a normal winter. With extreme weather conditions, more animals likely would be
pushed down toward the valley bottom from the Boise Ridge and onto the Hidden Springs
property. Recent (1986) range fires on the Hidden Springs property have reduced the amount of
winter forage for big game by removing valuable shrub species, especially bitterbrush. The 1996
range fire affected only the area south of Dry Creek which has little winter habitat area. Much of
the range north of Currant Creek has been taken over by three- awn grass, which has very little
forage value for any wildlife species because of its high silica content. The potential exists,
however, to rehabilitate the area by plantings of more preferred species of grasses, forbs, and
shrubs.
Some elk may winter on the upper portions of the property, especially during severe winters. They
too could benefit from range rehabilitation efforts. A few pronghorn antelope, approximately six
to eight (6-8) animals, exist in the area. They have favored the agricultural land in the valley
bottom, but occasionally venture onto the sagebrush hills.
Upland Game. Upland game including quail, pheasants, mourning doves, chukars and gray
(Hungarian) partridge are found in various habitat types on the property. Pheasants are most
common nearest the agricultural land, while quail, chukars and partridge are more common in the
grassland and sagebrush types. Water sources on the property, including the creeks, seeps, and
springs, are important to these upland game species, as well as other nongame wildlife.
Nongame. Raptors, such as red-tailed hawks, ferruginous hawks, Swainson's hawks, northern
harriers, and kestrels, hunt over the property, and nest along Dry, Currant and McFarland Creeks.
Several owl species also nest and hunt in the area. Great horned owls are known to nest in
McFarland Creek. Prairie falcons are known to nest farther to the east, off the property, but may
hunt on the sagebrush/grass slopes and riparian areas on the property. Fox, coyote, and other
various small mammals are found throughout the property, as are many species of birds that both
nest and migrate through the area. Various reptiles and amphibians are found from the valley
bottoms to the grassland and shrub slopes. The amphibians would be most closely associated with
the riparian areas, seeps, and springs, whereas the reptiles would generally be found in the drier,
rockier areas. These species, along with the small mammals, are an important food source for the
raptors and mammalian predators.
The most valuable habitat type in terms of numbers of different wildlife species are the riparian
areas along Dry Creek, Currant Creek, and McFarland Creek, and in the small seeps and springs.
Not only is the water source important, but the greater variety of plant species occurring in these
areas means a greater variety of wildlife species. Many species rely on the abundance of shrubs
and trees in riparian areas for escape cover, nesting, and food. Riparian areas also serve as
important migration and travel corridors because of the cover they provide.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 517
Threatened/Endangered Candidate Species:
The U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service (FWS) has identified a list of endangered, threatened, and
candidate species which may occur on the project site. Candidate species have no protection under
the Endangered Species Act but are included for early planning consideration. Candidate species
could be proposed or listed during the project planning period and would then be covered under
the Act. The gray wolf and peregrine falcon are the only officially endangered or threatened species
included on the FWS list. The gray wolf was included based on "probable sightings in 1978 and
1981 within 10 km" of the property. Because of the rarity of wolves in Idaho, and especially
southern Idaho, it is highly unlikely that a wolf would ever be found on the property. The peregrine
falcon was included because of the proximity to the Boise urban hack site, and it is conceivable
that the peregrines may fly over the property occasionally.
The pygmy rabbit, a C2 candidate species, was included as a "possible" occurrence on the property.
Since there is little data on the distribution of the pygmy rabbit, it is not conclusive whether it is a
resident species. A C2 species is one for which information indicates that a listing proposal may
be appropriate, but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threat are not
currently available. Priority for listing is lower for C2 species than for C1 species.
Given the above conditions it is not likely that there are threatened or endangered species on the
Hidden Springs property.
Sensitive Species. The State of Idaho also has a separate list of "Species of Special Concern."
Species occurring in the Boise foothills, and which might be found on the subject property at some
time during the year, and their primary habitats, include:
   Mammals
   * California Myotis - Sagebrush; feeds along riparian and water, roosts in mines, caves, and
      rock crevices.
   * Fringed Myotis - Dry pine forests; roosts in buildings.
   * Western Big-Eared Bat - Sagebrush, riparian, open pine forests, mountain shrub; roosts in
      mines, rock outcroppings, caves, dark buildings.
   * Western Pipistrelle - Cliffs near water; roosts in rocks. Birds
   * Long-Billed Curlew - Open grasslands, marshes.
   * Ferruginous Hawk - Open sagebrush, grassland, cultivated areas, riparian.
   * Swainson's Hawk - Open sagebrush, grassland, cultivated areas.
   * Merlin - Urban areas, riparian.
   * Goshawk - Winters in valley bottoms in riparian zones.
   * Mountain Quail - Riparian areas, dense shrubs.
   * Flammulated Owl - Conifer woodlands, riparian.
   * Northern Pygmy Owl - Dense riparian, mature forest, sometimes in open meadows,
      swamps, and cultivated areas.
   Reptiles And Amphibians
   * Western Ground Snake - Sagebrush.
   * Ringneck Snake - Woodlands, grasslands, shrubby areas, rocky canyons. Since these
      species are either rare or uncommon, it is difficult to estimate the importance of the


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 518
       subject property to their distribution.

8-13D-9-17: Cultural Resources
Introduction. As part of the planning and permitting process, an archaeological sensitivity
assessment of the Hidden Springs area was conducted. The purpose of the study was to determine
areas likely to contain archaeological remains which would be affected by the construction and
occupancy of the residential development. An examination of site forms, historic maps, and survey
reports resulted in the identification of cultural resources within the project area and the delineation
of areas of moderate, moderate to low and low sensitivity for archaeological remains. In general,
the project area is expected to have a moderate to low sensitivity for sites based on topographic
features, principally steep slopes, and distance to water.
Identified Resources In:
The Project Area. An architectural reconnaissance of the Boise foothills was performed as part of
a regional irrigation study (Davis 1990). Three (3) structures in the Dry Creek Valley were
recorded as part of that study. These structures include a wood frame hay shed (015216), a wood
clapboard house with masonry foundation (015217), and an irrigation headgate structure located
on a private ditch (015942). All three (3) structures occur in the Dry Creek flood plain on the
Hidden Springs property. Overall, the quantity and nature of the structures suggests that this area
received limited historic use associated with farming and livestock.
No prehistoric archaeological resources have been recorded within the Hidden Springs property
boundary. A total of six (6) prehistoric and historic sites have been recorded within two (2) miles
of the project area. All of these sites, consisting of prehistoric lithic scatters and historic
foundations, are located on moderate slopes adjacent to Dry Creek in a portion of the creek with a
very narrow flood plain.
Sensitivity Assessment. One of the primary goals of the Hidden Springs project is to be sensitive
to any archaeological resources in the project area. A sensitivity assessment has been conducted
focused on the relative potential for the various portions of the project area to contain significant
prehistoric or historic archaeological resources.
Trends were derived from examining the nature and patterning of known sites within the region,
the results of surveys in similar environmental locations including surveys with an absence of
cultural resources, and the physiographic and environmental characteristics of the project area.
Using these data, the project area was divided into several parts equating to different degrees of
archaeological sensitivity. Based on their differences, three (3) classes of sensitivity were defined:
moderate, moderate to low, and low.
The Cultural Resources map depicts the range of archaeological sensitivity of the project area. The
discussion below outlines the attributes of each of the sensitivity classes.
Moderate Sensitivity. The areas considered to possess moderate sensitivity include the Dry Creek
flood plain (M1) and the gentle to modest slopes in the southeastern portion of the study area (M2).
Both of these areas have flat to gently sloping topography and proximity to an intermittent stream.
The flood plain is covered in recent alluvium and sites within the area are likely to be buried.
However, conversations with a local farmer (personal communications, A. Ostalasa) indicate that
no cultural materials have been found in this portion of the flood plain, although such materials
have been recovered upstream from the project area. The Hidden Springs property has been


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 519
cultivated heavily since the 1800s. Sites that could be found in these areas include seasonal plant
collecting and hunting sites and historic sites associated with agriculture and grazing.
Moderate To Low Sensitivity. The areas considered to possess moderate to low sensitivity
include the steep slopes adjacent to the Dry Creek flood plain and the mouths of the drainages
issuing from the hills into the flood plain. The steep slopes contain some rock outcrops that could
have been used as temporary shelters or storage areas. Representing a transitional area between the
flood plain and the foothills, this sector is likely to contain a higher density of sites than the
foothills, but a lower density than the flood plain. The mouths of the drainages would likely have
received prehistoric use for hunting and some plant collecting associated with riparian habitats.
These drainages also represent the access corridors to the foothills.
Low Sensitivity. This is the largest portion of the project area, accounting for approximately two-
thirds (2/3) of the entire area. It contains moderate to steep slopes and ridge tops approximately
one-half (1/2) to one and one-half (1 ½) miles from Dry Creek with narrow intermittent drainages.
It corresponds to the low sensitivity zones within the foothills of both the Northeast Boise Foothills
project and the Hulls Grove project. In other areas, this zone exhibits low site density. Where sites
occur, they tend to be historic and associated with mining, grazing, or other temporary activities.
Prehistoric sites may include very short-term hunting sites and may be represented by isolated
artifacts. Sites in this zone are most likely to occur on ridge tops and moderate slopes near the
intermittent streams.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 520
   Figure 2-J



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 521
8-13D-9-18: Land Use Patterns
Existing land use patterns on-site and within one mile of the Hidden Springs property are
consistent with the rural residential and agricultural land uses surrounding the Boise metropolitan
area. Specific uses include dry land grazing, both irrigated and non-irrigated agriculture, rural
residential (homesites on parcels from one [1] to twenty-five [25] acres), undeveloped rural land
and a landfill parcel that is owned by Ada County.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 522
   Figure 2-K



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 523
8-13D-9-19: Site Analysis: Summary of Opportunities and Constraints
The analysis of site opportunities and constraints is derived from information presented in the pre-
development conditions section of this Plan and summarized in the Site.
Analysis: Opportunities and Constraints map. As such, the site analysis is a composite overlay of
the Geographic Information Systems (GIS) resource maps, background reports and field review
by the development and planning team. The following outline highlights the natural and cultural
factors which either singularly or in combination have presented assets or limitations in the
proposed development of Hidden Springs.
Opportunities. Varied Topography: Slopes and landforms that range from shallow, open areas in
the Dry Creek Valley floor to the gentle side slopes of the adjacent ridges, into the moderate or
steeper slopes of the foothills and gulches provide a great diversity to the Hidden Springs property.
These conditions afford the opportunity to sensitively incorporate development into the
topography, integrating buildings, roads, and infrastructure to minimize visual impacts and
disturbance on the property.
Valley And Hillside Views. The views from the hillsides into the Dry Creek Valley and beyond
are dramatic. From the upper slopes at the north side of the property, the views range up to one
hundred eighty degrees (180°) toward the Treasure Valley and the Owyhee Mountains. At the
south side of the property, the view across Dry Creek Valley features the backdrop of the foothills
that immediately rise up to the high ridges, front range and mountains above this valley.
Creeks. The three (3) creeks - Dry Creek, Currant Creek, and McFarland Creek - that run through
the Hidden Springs property offer a number of opportunities related to wildlife habitat,
trail/greenway corridors and visual amenities.
Access. The close proximity and routing of primary roads to the property from the south and west
via State Street, Highway 55, Seaman's Gulch Road, as well as Dry Creek Road from the east offer
various routes for convenient vehicular access and traffic distribution.
Ground Water. A ground water resource in the Hidden Springs project vicinity is found in
permeable sedimentary aquifers, with reported well yields of up to two thousand (2,000) gallons
per minute in the Dry Creek Valley west of the project area. The ground water from cold water
aquifers in the Hidden Springs project area is anticipated to be good quality for domestic use, with
moderate levels of hardness and no water quality parameters in excess of EPA maximum
contaminant levels (MCLs).
Constraints. Steep Slopes: A number of areas throughout the northern and southern portions of
the site are constrained by slopes that are in excess of twenty five percent (25%). These slopes are
primarily along the sides of the ridgelines that project into the Dry Creek Valley, some of the broad,
open slopes at the northern portion of the property and the backslope that extends into McFarland
Creek.
Visually Sensitive Hillsides. Due to the amount and exposure of slope area, including ridgelines,
side slopes and exposed hillside areas within the property, there is a significant amount of visually
sensitive land.
Power Line. The power line that runs diagonally across the upper end of the northern portion of
the site includes a significant easement and setback area that impacts views, reduces access, and
restricts land use along this corridor.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 524
Flood Plain. The Dry Creek flood plain and floodway present a constraint related to buildable area
and access within the valley floor.
Land With Limited Access. Certain portions of the Hidden Springs property are difficult to access
due to steep slopes, ridgelines, stream corridors, lack of easements or adjacent property
configurations and geological hazard areas.
Surface Water and Wetlands. Established drainages and springs including Dry Creek, Currant
Creek and McFarland Creek should be isolated from all unnecessary construction activity. Road
and utility crossings should be planned carefully with appropriate restoration.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 525
   Figure 2-M



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 526
8-13D-9-20: Central Planning Concepts
Plans for Hidden Springs have been under preparation for several years. The plans presented in
this document are the result of an extensive period of regional and site- based analysis, a careful
consideration of program and design alternatives and the study of other major projects in the
country that are known for environmental quality and traditional community values. The plans
were refined to reflect the suggestions of numerous public agencies and interest groups (including
many neighboring property owners) who are concerned with land use and development in the Dry
Creek Valley.
The resulting development strategy seeks to set a distinctive precedent for development in the Dry
Creek Valley by establishing a small rural town and agricultural valley floor as the defining
identity and amenity for an environmentally sensitive and visually dramatic planned community.
The central planning concepts which make up this plan include:
Integrated Community. Hidden Springs will use innovative infrastructure technologies, resource
management techniques and financial investment strategies to create a planned community which
integrates the unique qualities of its site with responsible development and operations.
      Site disturbance will be minimized through the use of rural roadway designs, shared
       driveways, building envelope controls on rural residential lots, and a compact and efficient
       village center core.
      Water will primarily come from United Water Company and be distributed to a reservoir
       and a comprehensive distribution system. Lots greater than two and a half (2.5) acres in size
       will be served by individual wells.
      Sewage will be handled primarily through an aerated lagoon biological treatment system.
       Lots greater than two and a half (2.5) acres in size may employ individual septic treatment
       systems.
      The sewage treatment system will be managed by a qualified professional entity acceptable
       to the department of environmental quality and Central health district.
      Stormwater will be captured, dispersed, and treated in a series of grassy swales and
       retention areas that will naturally filter pollutants and recharge the aquifer.
      On-site commercial and community/recreation facilities will help to capture traffic and
       minimize the number of trips off site. Park and ride lots and vanpools will help residents
       get to work without using their automobiles.
      A wildfire prevention and management strategy, developed in coordination with North Ada
       fire and rescue and BLM will be implemented. Elements include use of noncombustible
       building materials, fire resistant vegetation, sufficient water supply and pressure, and
       access to permittee's areas.
      Advanced telecommunication connections to every home will enable residents who choose
       to work at home to communicate with their employers, schools, libraries, and other
       information services without leaving the community.
      Extensive trails and bicycle facilities will encourage residents to walk and recreate within
       the community as well as have access to larger regional systems.
      An active community association will be established to ensure long term maintenance and
       operations are of the quality of initial improvements.
      The Hidden Springs boundary configuration together with the design and provision of
       essential public services enhances the ability of Hidden Springs to potentially be annexed


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 527
       or incorporated.
Maintaining Rural Character. Hidden Springs will maintain the existing rural character of Dry
Creek Valley by conserving the agricultural scale and character of uses in the most visible portions
of the site and concentrating higher density residential in the village center or more hidden side
coves and valleys. The central portion of the valley floor will remain in agriculture under common
control. The large south facing slope below the power line will be maintained as a wildlife
management area and be enhanced with native vegetation. Above the power line, farm/ranch lots
will serve as a buffer to this wildlife management area. The farm/ranch and rural lots will all have
designated building envelopes which will allow the majority of the site area of these lots to remain
in undisturbed native vegetation and open space. These designated building envelopes create a
very low density of isolated homesites which encourages the use of shared driveways, individual
wells and on-site septic to minimize the impact of access and development of the homesites. The
roadways outside the village center will be maintained as rural cross sections with natural
shoulders and grassy swales, rather than urban curb and gutters. Project features such as the general
store, community center and residential neighborhood entries will be designed consistent with the
site's character.
Minimizing Visual Impact. Where development is proposed, buildings, utilities and roads will
be carefully sited and screened to minimize their visual impact from both on-site and off-site
adjoining properties. Techniques used to minimize visual impact include:
      Minimizing development in the highly visible valley floor and concentrating development
       in the more hidden side coves, gulches, and valleys.
      Minimizing development of the highly visible hillsides and keeping development either at
       the base or top of slopes.
      Siting ridgetop units in saddles and low areas to minimize "skylining" when development
       occurs at the top of slopes.
      Tucking buildings into topographic folds.
      Orienting roadway views to open space, agricultural parcels, and the creek beds.
      Offsetting building pads to permit views between homes to open space, agricultural fields,
       and the creeks.
      Using native vegetation in natural massings to blend homes with hillsides.
      Limiting heights, breaking up building massing and facades to minimize the visual scale of
       structures.
Conserving Natural Systems. Hidden Springs has been carefully planned to minimize impact on
the natural systems in Dry Creek Valley and in some cases to enhance or improve natural systems
which have been stressed by the existing ranch and grazing operations. Riparian areas will be
maintained in their existing configuration or be enhanced.
Greenbelt or open space buffers have been designated between all riparian areas and nearby
development. Wildlife corridors and big game winter range management areas have been
designated with plans for enhancing these areas with vegetation to improve their ability to support
big game winter feeding.
Greenbelt, regional and local trails have been designed to allow both wildlife and humans to move
unobstructed throughout Hidden Springs and connect to corridors on adjoining lands.
Approximately fifty percent (50%) of Hidden Springs will remain as open space. Existing


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 528
vegetation will be maintained through the enforcement of building envelopes and related design
guidelines on the rural residential lots. Natural drainageways will be protected through similar
design guidelines regulating the grading and drainage of building parcels.
Protecting Water Quality. Water quality is integral to several planning concepts including
transportation, water, sewer, and facilities management.
Drainage from the road system will be contained and filtered through grass swales and natural soils
where terrain allows. The water system will be metered and managed.
Existing irrigation water rights will be used to continue farming activities and irrigate common
areas. Irrigation losses will be minimized through a program of limited and controlled landscaping
and planting. Wastewater will be treated primarily through a pressurized subsurface treatment
system. All the water quality management features will be designed in accordance with regulatory
standards and sited with soils and geology suited to that purpose. The existing springs on the south
side of Dry Creek will be integrated into the overall site plan's common areas and agricultural
areas. All of these systems will all be integrated into the overall management structure for the area.
These concepts, properly designed, constructed, maintained, and managed, will offer a rare
opportunity to have development without sacrificing water quality.
Developing A Distinctive Community. Hidden Springs has also been conceived with the intent
of establishing an environment that fosters a high quality of development and strong community
interaction amongst its residents. The village center will emulate the small-town character which
makes so many of Idaho's rural towns unique. The community will offer homesites with a broad
range of size configurations and features. Hidden Springs will encourage a diversity of residents
bound together with a common pride and identity in their community. While distinctive in their
design and product type, residential neighborhoods will be linked by pathways and trails to the
village center allowing the community center and general store to act as community wide gathering
places. Recreational facilities such as playing fields, playgrounds, tot lots, trails and other open
space features will provide numerous opportunities for residents to interact. Hidden Springs will
also sponsor numerous community activities including farmers' markets, community gatherings,
family-oriented holiday events and educational sessions to encourage residents to explore the
natural environment, meet their neighbors and share in community activities. The schools, general
store and produce stand will also meet important community needs, reduce travel requirements,
and will provide the community with opportunities for residents to interact with their neighbors.
Hidden Springs will provide Ada County and the Boise area with a model planned community that
captures the rural character and traditional town values that have historically made Idaho's
communities ideal environments to live in and raise a family.
Flexibility. The master land use plan, development standards and design guidelines contained
herein are intended to depict the general nature and relative intensity of residential and
nonresidential development at Hidden Springs, while allowing sufficient flexibility to permit
detailed planning and design as development progresses through market cycles. The configuration
of development parcels and phases may be altered from those shown on the master land use plan
to accommodate detailed site conditions and revisions to the project's implementation strategy -
providing that the reconfiguration does not conflict with the general intent or specific conditions
described in this specific plan.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 529
Specific conditions:
       1. Residential density may be transferred among development parcels providing this
          transfer does not conflict with the general intent or conditions provided in Section 8-
          13D-4 of this Article, nor exceed the total project unit count of one thousand thirty-five
          (1,035) units. Density transfers will be reflected in plats submitted for each phase.
       2. A mix of residential uses is permitted in all development parcels.
       3. Total commercial uses shall not exceed fifty thousand (50,000) gross square feet (GSF)
          of interior building area of village commercial uses and fifty thousand (50,000) gross
          square feet (GSF) of interior building area of agricultural commercial uses as defined
          herein. Public and community support uses are not included in these totals.
       4. A major portion of the Dry Creek Valley floor will remain in use for agricultural
          activities.
       5. There will be a designation of a major wildlife and winter range area, both north of
          Currant Creek, south of the power line, and west of Cartwright Road, as well as east of
          Cartwright Road and north of the power line.
       6. The total acreage of the open space areas will not decrease below eight hundred ten
          (810) acres.
8-13D-9-21: Plan Overview
Introduction: The primary objective of the Hidden Springs plan is to create a rural community in
the tradition of Idaho small towns spread throughout the state's rural areas. The project will
maintain the traditional character of Dry Creek Valley while allowing for low density residential
development. The project will also protect and enhance the site's natural environment including
riparian areas, groundwater recharge areas, open space/natural features, wildlife, and winter range
areas.
Homesites: The residential program for Hidden Springs is the result of a desire to create a rural
community with a variety of housing options for prospective residents. The following overview
provides a description of the six (6) residential options:
Farm/ranch lots - These are agricultural style lots intended to preserve rural character in the most
visible portions of the Dry Creek Valley. The farm/ranch lots are intended to provide a unique
residential opportunity in conjunction with carefully controlled farming or grazing operations.
Rural lots - These are lots which serve as buffers between farm lots and denser residential lots or
between the village center and adjoining properties. Rural lots are intended to provide a transition
from farm to village character.
Large lots - These are lots which are generally located on the site's moderately sloped hillsides.
These lots vary substantially in size and configuration to respond to existing topography and
minimize visual impact.
Regular lots - These are lots which generally occur in the side valleys and coves where relatively
flat land hidden from distant views can accommodate higher densities. They may also be located
in areas where smaller lots are most appropriate.
Village homes - These are reminiscent of the "in town" lots traditionally found in Idaho's


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 530
agricultural towns and communities. These lots and homes built on them are intended to form a
close-knit residential village with strong pedestrian and community orientation like some of the
established neighborhoods of Boise (such as the north and east ends).
Townhomes - These are the community's smallest lots, intended to provide alternative, attached,
or smaller detached homes which may appeal to seniors, empty nesters, first time home buyers,
and/or single parents who prefer a small unit with limited yard area. Townhome lots are intended
to be located in or within convenient walking distance of the village center.
Nonresidential Uses: Commercial support uses are accommodated via three (3) overlay zones as
described below:
Village Commercial: This area provides for neighborhood businesses that are compatible with
the adjoining village residential uses. It will serve the residents of Hidden Springs, the Dry Creek
Valley, and other nearby areas. A general store will be developed in the first phase of the project
to initiate this village commercial zone and serve early residents of the project with staples and
services.
Agricultural Commercial: This area provides for agriculturally oriented businesses (such as
produce stands) that are compatible with agricultural activities and nearby residential uses.
Businesses located in this zone will also serve the residents of Hidden Springs, the Dry Creek
Valley, and nearby areas.
Employment Centers: Hidden Springs anticipates that certain specialized types of employment
centers may be attracted to this project because of its unique setting, rural character, high quality
development standards and community values. Hidden Springs would like to reserve the right to
incorporate future employment centers and related contemplated uses providing these uses adhere
to the rigorous standards for compatibility and consistency described herein.
Other Uses: Public and Other Community Support Uses: Include the Community Center, schools,
daycare facilities, post office, recreational facilities, the fire station, and an Equestrian Center. The
community will also include a greenbelt along Dry Creek, a series of regional and local trails, and
significant areas of open space.

    Table 4: Land Use and Density
             Land Use            Gross Acreage1                Dwelling Units      Percent Of Total
                                                                                   Dwelling Units
 Residential:
 Farm/ranch lots                    53                    32                      3 percent
 Rural lots                         94                    2                       0 percent
 Large lots                         360                   278                     27 percent
 Regular lots                       7                     11                      1 percent
 Village homes                      253                   696                     67 percent
 Townhomes                          6                     16                      2 percent
 Residential subtotals              773                   1,035                   100 percent


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 531
 Nonresidential:
 Open space/parks               963
 Community Center/school        29
 Equestrian Center              0
 Nonresidential subtotals       992
 Totals                         1,765

   Note:
   1. The gross acreage as adopted by findings by the Board of County Commissioners is one
      thousand one hundred sixty-three (1,163). The acreage breakdown will be corrected in a
      future ordinance. This table represents anticipated land uses as of May 2003. The final
      allocation of uses may vary based on site and market conditions as allowed by this
      application and zoning ordinance.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 532
   Figure 3-A




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 533
8-13D-9-22: Phasing Plan
The phasing plan for the Hidden Springs community outlines the anticipated sequence of
development implementation. Initial phases of construction are relatively easier to identify and
predict than subsequent phases will undoubtedly be adjusted in response to general economic
conditions, market forces and absorption rates. The community is currently projected to take
between seven (7) and twelve (12) years to build out.
The phasing plan map identifies the phases and sequence as anticipated at this time. The sequence
reflects two (2) primary considerations: one is that a variety of densities and housing types are
desirable for inclusion in each phase; another is that infrastructure is planned for development in
an economically efficient manner. All land use types are included in each phase, with the exception
of the preliminary assumption that townhouse units may not be developed until phases four and
five. Phasing is planned in such a way that at the completion of each phase all essential public
services needed to meet that and preceding phases are in place and that financing necessary for
maintenance and operation of those services is assured. Hidden Springs will be developed in such
a way that integrity of the community will be maintained at the end of each phase.
Phase One (1997-1999). Preliminary projections are for the first phase to include a mix of eighty
(80) to one hundred sixty-two (162) residential units drawn from the following categories:
farm/ranch lots, rural lots, large lots, regular lots, and village home lots. The number of units in
each of these categories will be based on market demand and the need to offer potential residents
a variety of housing options.
This phase will also include roadway improvements to Seaman’s Gulch Road, McFarland Road,
and Dry Creek Road south and west of Dry Creek with associated landscape and entry
improvements. These improvements are all within the development boundaries. A general store
will be constructed near the realigned intersection of Seaman’s Gulch and Dry Creek. Utility
systems to support this phase will also be constructed including a water reservoir, water distribution
lines, sewage treatment system, and the storm water retention areas servicing the phase I
development area. A significant portion of the trail system will also be developed.
Subsequent Phases: The rate of development following the initial phase, exact location and number
of future phases, and types and number of units to be included in each future phase may be revised
based on market demand, regional and national economic conditions, and construction logistics.
Analysis at this time indicates that approximately seventy-five (75) to one hundred (100) units per
year can be successfully absorbed. A seven (7) to twelve (12) year build out is therefore assumed.
The anticipated completion time for each phase is as follows:


                                         TABLE 5: PHASING
         Phase              Year                Residential Units               Land Contained
   Phase 1             1997–99           162                              184
   Phase 2             2000–02           134                              58
   Phase 3             2003–04           102                              24
   Phase 4             2005–06           138                              41



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 534
   Phase 5             2007–08           132                              62
   Phase 6             2009–10           105                              40
   Phase 7             2011–12           176                              195
   Phase 8             2013–14           86                               169
                                         1,035                            773

Anticipated population levels for each phase can be determined by multiplying the estimated
number of persons per unit – two and a half (2.5) – by the number of units anticipated in each phase.
As part of the County review of the Hidden Springs development that will occur every two (2)
years, the developer will provide the Director with a summary including: number of residential
units and commercial uses platted to date; number of and type of units built by type; quantities and
types of commercial and public facilities; a description of all infrastructure and services developed;
and an updated outline of future phases.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 535
   Figure 3-B

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 536
8-13D-9-23: Roads and Circulation
Overall Objectives: The design of the vehicular and pedestrian circulation system at Hidden
Springs must meet the safety and functional intent of the Ada County Highway District (ACHDs)
design standards while not compromising the aesthetic, environmental, and community building
goals of the project. The circulation hierarchy and typical cross sections which follow strive to
strike a balance between these two (2) requirements. The main objectives of the Hidden Springs
circulation system include:
   1. Provide a functionally efficient, safe, balanced, network of vehicular, bicycle and
      pedestrian facilities.
   2. Maintain the project’s rural character by using rural cross sections wherever possible.
   3. Minimize disturbance of existing soils and vegetation.
   4. Minimize runoff and associated erosion.
   5. Use grassed swales wherever possible to disperse storm water, allow for maximum
      percolation and remove runoff pollutants.
   6. Provide on-street parking throughout the Village Center.
   7. Design street cross sections to a level that provides relative ease of vehicular movement,
      while also affording reduced speeds.
   8. Accommodate “through” bicycle traffic on-street and “recreational” bicycle traffic both on
      street and on shared pedestrian/bicycle paths separated from roadways.
   9. Allow sidewalks and shared pedestrian/bicycle paths to meander in pedestrian easements
      outside the road right of way for maximum design flexibility.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 537
 Table 6: Road Standards
    Road         R.O.W.   Total   Travel   Shoulder    Turn    Parking   Sidewalk/Bik e   Setback    Curb
    Type                  Pvmnt   Lanes     Width     Lane/     (Left)       Path         To Path    Type
                          Width              (ea)     Median                                (1)
Rural            60’      24’     2@12’    3’         None     None      10’              N/A       None
collector –
typical
Rural            60’      36’     2@12’    3’         12’      None      10’              N/A       None
collector –
with turn
land
Rural            46’      24’     2@12’    3’         None     None      8’               N/A       None
collector –
constrained
Dry Creek        60’      26’     2@13’    0’         None     None      10’              N/A       6”
Bridge                                                                                              Vertical
crossing
Rural            50’      22’     2@11’    3’         None     None      8’               N/A       None
residential –
typical
Rural            40’      22’     2@11’    0’         None     None      8’               N/A       12”
residential –                                                                                       Ribbon
constrained
Village street   72’      50’     2@12’    0’         10’      8’        5’               6’        6”
– primary                                                                                           Vertical
Village street   56’      34’     2@10’    0’         None     7’        5’               6’        6”
– residential                                                                                       Vertical
Village alley    20’      16’     N/A      2’         None     None      None             N/A       None


   Note:
   (1) Distance measured from face of curb.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 538
  Notes:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
  (2) The ROW shall be 80 feet for Cartwright Road southeast of its intersection with Dry Creek
  Road and for Dry Creek Road from its eastern terminus westward to and including the Dry
  Creek Bridge.
  Rural Collector – Typical (Seaman’s Gulch Road, Dry Creek Road, and lower Cartwright
  Road): Rural collectors serve to collect traffic from and distribute traffic to village streets and
  rural residential roadways throughout the project. They will also serve to accommodate
  through traffic – although through traffic will be discouraged to help maintain the rural
  character and minimize environmental impact to the Dry Creek Valley. The typical section
  includes a sixty (60') foot right of way with two (2) 12-foot travel lanes, two (2) 3-foot
  stabilized shoulders, and two (2) 8- foot maximum width grass swales. A single ten-foot (10')
  pedestrian/bicycle path will meander in a pedestrian easement generally parallel to the right of
  way but not always contiguous to the right of way.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 539
  Notes:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
  Rural Collector - With Turn Lane: For rural collectors where turn lanes are needed a twelve-
  foot (12') center turn lane will be added as necessary to accommodate turning movement into
  project roadways. The section will also include travel lanes of twelve feet (12'). Otherwise, the
  section will remain the same as the typical rural collector.




  Notes:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
  Rural Collector - Constrained (upper Cartwright Road): The rural collector constrained section
  mainly occurs in the upper portion of Cartwright Road. In order to maintain the visual character
  and minimize the site disturbance this section has been narrowed. The typical section includes
  a forty-six foot (46') right of way with two (2) 12-foot travel lanes, two (2) 3-foot stabilized
  shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum width grass swales. A single eight foot (8') shared
  pedestrian/bicycle path will be approximately parallel to the right of way in a separate
  pedestrian easement.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 540
  Notes:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
  Dry Creek Bridge Crossing: The Dry Creek Bridge Crossing will provide enhanced capacity,
  safety, and the addition of separate bicycle/pedestrian facility across Dry Creek. The bridge
  can also serve as a primary visual identity element for the project and may become a "covered
  bridge" with appropriate vertical clearance and architectural style. The bridge crossing will
  remain in its current location. Bridge width and associated grading should be kept to a
  minimum to prevent impact to the riparian corridor. The typical section includes a thirty-two
  foot (32') wide bridge surface with two (2) 13-foot travel lanes. A single ten-foot (10')
  pedestrian/bicycle path will be accommodated in a separate pedestrian/bicycle bridge crossing.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 541
  Notes:
  (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
  Rural Residential - Typical: Rural residential streets include most of the roadways in Hidden
  Springs and will serve to carry local traffic to/from individual homesites. These roadways will
  be located and designed to discourage through-traffic and maintain low vehicular speeds. The
  typical section includes a fifty-foot (50') right of way with two (2) 11-foot travel lanes, two (2)
  3-foot stabilized shoulders, and two (2) 8-foot maximum width grass swales. A single eight
  foot (8') shared pedestrian/bicycle path will meander beyond the ROW in a pedestrian easement
  as necessary.




 Notes:
 (1) Pedestrian easement may or may not be contiguous. (Typical)
 Rural Residential - Constrained: Constrained rural residential streets occur in steeply sloped
 areas that cannot handle the width required for the typical rural residential section. This section
 includes a forty-foot (40') right of way with two (2) 11-foot travel lanes, no stabilized shoulders
 (but a 12-inch ribbon curb included in the 11-foot travel lane) and one grass swale on the uphill
 side of the street. An eight-foot (8') pedestrian/bicycle path will be located on the downhill side
 of the street with a wood guardrail separating it from the street for safety purposes.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 542
  Village Street - Primary (Seaman's Gulch Road, Dry Creek Road, and McFarland Road within
  the Village Center): Primary village streets will serve as the "main streets" of the Village
  Center and will accommodate the potential for commercial uses, community center, school,
  and village residential uses along their frontage. Village streets should establish a comfortable
  environment for pedestrians with slower vehicular speeds, frequent vehicular stops, on-street
  parking, and tree-lined sidewalks. The typical section includes a seventy-two-foot (72') ROW
  with two (2) 12-foot travel lanes, one ten foot (10') turn lane (where necessary) or planted
  median, two (2) 8-foot parallel parking lanes, and five foot (5') sidewalks set back from the
  curb with a five foot six inch (5'6") tree lawn on both sides of the street and within the right of
  way.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 543
  Village Residential (All other streets within the Village Center): Residential village streets
  should also establish a comfortable pedestrian environment with slow vehicular speeds,
  frequent vehicular stops, on-street parking, and tree-lined sidewalks. Because turning volumes
  for these streets should be low enough to eliminate the need for turn lanes, the typical section
  includes a fifty-six-foot (56') right of way with two (2) 10-foot travel lanes, two (2) 7-foot
  parallel parking lanes and five foot (5') sidewalks set back from the curb with a five foot six
  inch (5'6") tree lawn.




  Village Alley: Alleys will be created to eliminate driveways on village streets. Fewer
  driveways on village streets means more on-street parking, more resident interaction, less
  utilitarian infrastructure, and no unsightly garages lining residential streets. Alleys will also be
  used for utility easements, trash collection and emergency vehicular access. The typical alley
  section includes a sixteen-foot (16') paved lane with two-foot (2') shoulders on each side.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 544
 Figure 3-C



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 545
8-13D-9-24: Traffic Strategy
Hidden Springs has been carefully planned to minimize traffic impacts on surrounding roadways
and concentrate off-site trips to the south and west of the community. Six (6) key elements of this
strategy are:
Project Density: It is anticipated that approximately seventy five percent (75%) of the population
of the Hidden Springs Community is projected to be located on the south side of Dry Creek Road.
The traffic analysis of Hidden Springs concludes the highest percentage of trips into downtown
Boise, Eagle and south to I-84 will occur within the existing road system to the south and west of
the project: on Seaman's Gulch Road, to Hill Road, Gary Lane to Glenwood Road and State Street;
and on Dry Creek Road west to Highway 55.
Location of Village Center: The Village Center with its commercial uses, schools and other
community activities will capture traffic within the community and reduce the need to go outside
the community for goods and services.
Trip Reduction Strategy: A trip reduction strategy is included as part of the overall Hidden
Springs Traffic Strategy. This strategy is centered around the concept of travel demand
management, which will result in trip reduction based on providing commercial and community
support uses in the Village Center, telecommuting, recreation facilities, a park and ride lot, an
extensive bicycle and pedestrian path system, and vanpooling.
Rural Road Sections: As part of the rural character of the community, rural road sections
(designs) will be utilized to the greatest extent possible and based on approval of these sections by
ACHD. These sections will not have curbs, gutters, or sidewalks.
Also, these roads will have a parallel path system that will accommodate bicycles and pedestrians
thereby reducing vehicular trips and improving both the safety and alternate transportation options
in the community.
Future Growth Scenario: Due to the topography of the area, it is anticipated that the bulk of
future development within Dry Creek Valley will occur to the west of Hidden Springs. Strategic
placement of Hidden Springs densities at the south, and placement of the Village Center at the west
end of the community will lead this future trend and route the majority of community traffic toward
transportation corridors to the population centers and services to the west.
Traffic Focus and Diversion: Hidden Springs supports traffic planning and design measures that
will direct traffic to corridors with adequate capacity and future additional potential. These
measures include: diversionary intersections at Hill Road and Gary Lane, Hill Road and 36th (both
recently adopted by ACHD), and Cartwright Road and 36th Street (future) that will direct traffic
to the south rather than along Hill Road and Harrison Boulevard; and plans for new and expanded
north-south corridors on Eagle Road and on routes being evaluated in the Bench to Valley Study.
The widening of 36th Street and connection of Veteran's Memorial Parkway through to Curtis
Road and the I-84 connector will result in a significant reduction in potential traffic on State Street
and through parts of the North End. Also, the future connection of Gary Lane and Glenwood Road
through to Cole Road and the mall area will provide another major north-south connection that
will ease pressures on the North End.
These improvements will greatly increase the already good accessibility of Hidden Springs.
8-13D-9-25: Trip Reduction Strategy


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 546
Travel Demand Management Through Trip Reduction Strategy: One of the primary concerns
surrounding development of the foothills is the potential traffic impact on existing neighborhoods.
The Hidden Springs Specific Plan places major emphasis on the concept of Travel Demand
Management. The Plan incorporates trip reduction strategies to promote trip containment and trip
reduction to minimize impacts on existing transportation networks and existing neighborhoods. In
addition, the Specific Plan focuses traffic away from areas such as Harrison Boulevard, where
traffic capacity is currently strained. As previously noted, recent decisions by ACHD concerning
new north-south connections on Curtis Road and Glenwood Street will reduce potential traffic
pressures on the North End.
Hidden Springs is focused around a Village Center which contains recreational, institutional and
commercial activities. These may include: general store, hardware, cafe, real estate office, daycare,
grade school site, and a community center. The initial phase will contain approximately eighty to
one hundred sixty-two (80-162) units and will include construction of the general store.
Other elements of the community and design will support trip reductions. Hidden Springs will
incorporate the most advanced practical telecommunications technology to encourage and promote
telecommuting. The site will also have a pedestrian and bicycle trail system for internal circulation
and connections to the Village Center which will access the wider foothills trail system. Hidden
Springs will also have a park and ride lot near the Village Center.
Bicycle security facilities will be installed at several locations in the Village Center and at the park
and ride lot to provide residents complete non-automobile transportation. Upon the issuance of the
three hundredth (300th), five hundredth (500th) and seven hundredth (700th) residential building
permits, Hidden Springs will provide the local matching funds for the purchase of a van for project
residents to use in Ada County Highway District's vanpooling program. Hidden Springs will
provide a bus shelter in the Village Center for use when the regional transit district provides bus
service to the area.
8-13D-9-26: Open Space and Trails Strategy
Overview: Hidden Springs includes a strategy for creating a comprehensive system of trails and
paths to allow pedestrian, bicycle and equestrian access to open space and outlying foothill areas.
Internally, this system will connect the residential neighborhoods with the Village Center,
community open space and the greenbelt along Dry Creek. These internal trails will in turn provide
external connections to regional open space and the trail system along Currant Creek, McFarland
Creek, and Dry Creek. Five (5) highlights of this strategy include:
Safety: The path and trail system will generally be contiguous although not always directly parallel
to the community road system. This will allow pedestrians and bicycles to circulate independently
of vehicular traffic providing a greater degree of safety.
Trip Reduction: Providing alternative modes of travel is one of the primary goals of Hidden
Springs. Developing trails and distinct internal connections between the open space,
neighborhoods, and the Village Center, as well as access to community facilities and recreation
areas for pedestrian and bicycle traffic will reduce the number of vehicular trips necessary within
the project area.
Regional Connections: The Hidden Springs trail system will make a major contribution to
regional public access and trail systems. Hidden Springs will implement the first phase of a
greenbelt trail that runs along Dry Creek, from Bogus Basin to the city of Eagle. It will also


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 547
implement major pieces of the foothills regional trail system that provides access across the
western foothills and beyond.
Wildlife Protection: Wildlife is considered an important natural resource of Hidden Springs.
Therefore, protection of wildlife habitat is an important component of the trails and open space
strategy. Major trails and paths within the community typically occur along the perimeter of
wildlife management areas and riparian corridors. This will allow pedestrian, bicycle, and
equestrian access to these areas, while also maintaining the integrity of the habitat's larger area.
Intrusions or disturbance by development will be minimized.
Wildfire Prevention: Strategic alignment of the trail system around the perimeter of neighborhood
and wildlife management areas will provide emergency access for homeowners and firefighters
while serving as fire breaks to limit the spread or incidence of wildfire.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 548
   Figure 3-D

ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 549
8-13D-9-27: Wildfire Prevention Strategy
Background: The Hidden Springs community has been carefully planned with a strategy for the
prevention, control and rapid extinguishment of wildfires. This program is intended to address the
legitimate concern about residential development in the foothill areas as it relates to public safety
and wildfire prevention, while maintaining the functional and aesthetic parameters of the
community. Development of a program for wildfire prevention has been an effort involving
members of the planning team and local fire experts. This strategy has been reviewed with fire and
resource experts since the 1996 wildfire affecting the Hidden Springs property. The consensus is
that the strategy remains valid and highly desirable as an approach to dealing with fire hazards in
the foothills. Seven (7) primary criteria have been identified in establishing a sound wildfire
prevention program for this project:
Available Water: Two (2) aspects of water systems have been considered in the planning and
development of this community. The first is the quality and quantity of water available for
domestic use. The second is the type of system and quantity of water available for fire protection.
The availability of water for fire protection on the Hidden Springs community will exceed the
minimum storage requirement of five hundred fifty thousand (550,000) gallons. Fire flow will also
exceed the minimum one thousand five hundred (1,500) gallons per minute with additional
buffering for peak hour demands.
Water mains will be sized to accommodate fire hydrants at a maximum of five hundred foot (500')
spacing in residential areas and about three hundred fifty foot (350') spacing near commercial and
community structures. Hydrants will be strategically located near emergency access easements to
the residential perimeter and wildlife management areas, as well as periodically along roadways.
Booster pumps to ensure adequate pressure and backup power are also part of the design of the
water distribution system.
Lots greater than two and a half (2.5) acres located north of the power lines will be served from
individual wells, subject to approval by the required jurisdictional agencies. Each residential
building will be required to have a fire sprinkler system meeting NFPA 13D supplied from their
individual well. Fire hydrants connected to the public water system are located approximately one
and one-fourth (11/4) miles south of the ninth (9th) addition access on Cartwright Road. Fill and
return time for a firetruck would be ten (10) minutes or less.
Proximity Of Fire Services: Fire service will be provided by the North Ada fire and rescue
district. The bureau of land management also has responsibilities for fire protection in the foothills
because of extensive public lands in the area. A fire station site will be provided in the village
center in the first phase of the project. When the district constructs a station on the site, volunteers
from Hidden Springs may be asked to supplement the staff at the new station. The new facility is
envisioned by the district to house a pumper, tanker, and grassfire equipment (that have adequate
capacity to serve Hidden Springs, the Dry Creek Valley, and adjacent areas) at its completion.
Emergency Vehicle Access: Primary roads within the community will be designed to provide
access for emergency vehicles. Provisions will be made for access by firefighting equipment and
personnel from two (2) directions into each residential neighborhood. All roads will have a
maximum gradient of ten percent (10%). Spurs that serve those areas occurring off the primary
roads will terminate in cul-de-sacs, with adequate turnarounds for emergency vehicles. All roads
will be maintained by Ada County highway district to its standards. Emergency access easements


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 550
to residential perimeters and major open space areas will be provided at strategic locations,
including ends of cul-de-sacs and between adjoining lots.
Site Planning: Careful site planning for fire protection at the perimeter of the residential
neighborhoods as well as local protection for individual homesites is a critical function of the
wildfire prevention program for Hidden Springs. As such, a comprehensive system of roads, trails,
riparian greenways, and open preserves is an integral part of each neighborhood. This system
provides strategic emergency access points and firebreaks at the neighborhood perimeters that
allow firefighters to confine a fire to a small area. To reduce local exposure to hillside areas, the
residential lots in each neighborhood will be low density, with a limited building envelope on the
most level portion of the site. Also, setbacks will be required between all structures and adjacent
slopes.
Noncombustible Construction Materials: Architectural design guidelines for the Hidden
Springs project will require that noncombustible materials such as tile/slate, asphalt composition
shingles, and standing seam metal be utilized for roofing materials. These guidelines will also
require any highly combustible material used for exterior siding, paneling, fencing and other wood
structures to be factory treated with an industry rated fire-retardant chemical.
Landscaping And Fuel Modification: The landscape planting guidelines for Hidden Springs will
include provisions for wildfire prevention in conjunction with site planning, aesthetics, water
requirements, native plants, and ongoing maintenance programs. The goal of these guideline
provisions will be twofold. First, to implement a comprehensive landscape design that will reduce
fuel volume in the common and perimeter areas, and second, to provide individual homesites with
a framework for fuel modification. The guideline criteria for the fuel modification in the common
areas and residential neighborhoods of Hidden Springs are: planting fire resistant plant materials;
establishing irrigated landscape envelopes within each homesite; developing vegetation buffers
that provide transition to adjacent native vegetation and establishing criteria for clearance between
buildings and plantings within each site.
Following the wildfire on a portion of the Hidden Springs property in the summer of 1996, a
revegetation effort is getting underway. In consultation with wildfire and vegetation experts, a mix
of fire-resistant grasses and plants will be planted in several stages over the coming months.
Maintenance and Management: Ongoing maintenance, management and enforcement of the
wildfire prevention program will be the responsibility of the community association and governed
by the covenants, codes, and restrictions for the Hidden Springs community. The design guidelines
for the project will be administered by a design review committee for site planning, architectural
and landscape design compliance with the wildfire prevention program. Additionally, public
information and education programs about wildfire prevention will be developed in cooperation
with the North Ada fire and rescue district and the bureau of land management.
8-13D-9-28: Wildlife Strategy
Wildlife Preservation and Enhancement Techniques: The Hidden Springs project will take an
active approach to optimizing the site's ability to support a wide diversity of wildlife species. The
master land use plan includes the following wildlife management and enhancement techniques:
       1. Designation of a major wildlife area and winter range area both north of Currant Creek,
          south of the power line and west of Cartwright Road as well as east of Cartwright Road
          and north of the power line. Hidden Springs will work with the Bureau of Land


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 551
             Management (BLM) and the Idaho Department of Fish and Game (IDFG) to enhance
             vegetation in this area including supplemental seeding and seedling planting of sage
             and bitterbrush. Hidden Springs will allow IDFG to post peak seasonal closure signs
             surrounding this winter range area. This includes posting peak seasonal closure signs
             at the trailheads to this area.
         2. Designation of multiple portions of the site as permanent open space including:
                The agricultural area in the valley floor.
                The Dry Creek riparian corridor.
                Most of the south facing slopes north of Dry Creek.
                The Currant Creek riparian corridor.
                The McFarland Creek riparian corridor and surrounding valley floor.
         3. Designation of several trail/migration corridors including:
                The Dry Creek regional greenbelt and migration corridor.
                The Currant Creek regional trail and migration corridor.
                The McFarland Creek trail and migration corridor.
                A series of local intracommunity trails including a loop trail around
                 development to the southwest, a trail connecting Currant Creek to Dry
                 Creek and a trail connecting the power line to Currant Creek.
                Working closely with neighboring landowners, as the Grossman
                 family has been, to encourage them to extend these trails and corridors
                 through their properties to the federal lands beyond.
         4. Location of low-density farm/ranch and rural lots as buffers near those areas of the site
            which accommodate greater intensities of wildlife species.
         5. Designation of building envelopes on all large, rural and farm/ranch lots to minimize
            the disruption of wildlife habitat in the form of native groundcover vegetation and
            existing soil and drainage patterns.
         6. Restricting fencing in rear lot buffer areas which abut major wildlife migration corridors
            and the preserved winter range area.
In addition, the project's design guidelines (Section 8-13D-6 of this Article) will:
         1. Encourage the clustering of buildings and related landscape to maximize contiguous
            open space.
         2. Limit fencing across critical migration corridors to a maximum height and minimum
            kick space as recommended by Idaho fish and game. If barbed wire fencing is used, the
            bottom wire shall be smooth.
         3. Require all new landscape material on lots outside building envelopes to be drought
            tolerant, native and from a list of less palatable or nonpalatable plant species.
         4. Encourage replanting of wildlife food species and plant species which enhance critical
            habitat.
         5. Prohibit the installation and require the complete removal of noxious plants and weeds
            within the designated development envelope by the builder or homeowner.


 ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 552
       6. Require builders to employ “best practices” grading techniques including incremental
          phasing/reparation, dust controls, grading, limit fencing, etc.
       7. Limit modifications to natural drainageways to those which are absolutely necessary
          or those which increase the effectiveness of the drainageway in carrying stormwater
          and accommodating wildlife.
       8. Prohibit exposed dumping and composting (covered composting is permitted).
       9. Require residential trash to be kept inside the house, garage or appropriate enclosure
          until the morning of trash collection. Encourage trash containers to have attached lids.
       10. Require dogs and cats to be in latchable carriers or on leashes when outside the
           residential or commercial lots during critical migration periods as determined by Idaho
           fish and game.
       11. Prohibit contractors from bringing dogs to construction sites.
       12. Limit motorized vehicles from roads and trails (4-wheel drive vehicles, snowmobiles
           and motorcycles) except for construction, fire, emergency and maintenance vehicles.
       13. Include wildlife educational materials and an acknowledgment of wildlife presence and
           the potential for property damage in the project’s homeowners’ documents.
       14. Post big game crossing signs at major crossing points along Cartwright Road and Dry
           Creek Road (maximum 4 signs). Where wildlife and development conflicts continue to
           occur despite these measures, Hidden Springs will work with local, state and federal
           agencies in an attempt to resolve these conflicts.
8-13D-9-29: Water Supply
A water infrastructure extension agreement to provide Hidden Springs potable water is in place
between United Water Idaho, Inc. (United Water), and Hidden Springs. Water transmission,
storage and the first phase of the water distribution facilities have been built, tested and are
available for service.
Lots greater than two and a half (2.5) acres located north of the power lines will be served from
individual wells, subject to approval by the required jurisdictional agencies.
Water Supply Requirements – South of Power Lines: The average demand is estimated at
approximately 0.275 million gallons per day (mgd) or about two hundred (200) gallons per minute
(gpm). This demand is equivalent to a withdrawal of three hundred (300) acre- feet. Approximately
forty (40) to forty five percent (45%) (135 acre- feet) of this annual usage will be consumptively
used by irrigation, with the remainder returning to the aquifer as recharge from the subsurface
wastewater treatment system. The peak day demand is estimated at 1.4 mgd, or approximately one
thousand (1,000) gpm.
Sources: Existing system extension. An agreement has been reached with United Water Company
to supply water to the project from this source, a booster pump station would be built at the storage
reservoir, and a water main extended to the project area. A second storage reservoir on the north
side of the summit between Seaman’s Gulch and Dry Creek provides gravity service to the water
system described in the following section.
Water Supply Requirements – North of Power Lines: The average demand for an individual


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 553
home varies with occupancy. Estimates are based on the number of bedrooms within the home.
Sources: Individual wells on each lot will be the source of water for domestic and irrigation uses.
One Hundred Twenty Acre Annexation Area: United Water has agreed that the annexation area
is serviceable as approved by the Idaho public utilities Commission. United Water will supply
water to Hidden Springs from United Water’s existing source supply through the new transmission
facilities. The annexation area has been reduced to ninety-seven (97) acres due to the transfer of
twenty-three (23) acres to the Cartwright Ranch planned community in 2007.
Conclusion: It is anticipated that the development of Hidden Springs will not negatively impact
groundwater supply in the vicinity.
8-13D-9-30: Water System
Introduction: As discussed in Section 8-13D-29 of this Article, the primary water supply for the
Hidden Springs project has been developed as an extension of United Water Company service
lines. Lots greater than two and a half (2.5) acres located north of the power lines will be served by
individual wells, subject to approval by the required jurisdictional agencies.
United Water Service General Description: The primary water system has been designed in
accordance with the Idaho regulations for public drinking water systems, Title I, Chapter 8 Section
1-8200.1, as required by the Idaho Code 39-118 or 50-1326 and the fire code as adopted by the
state of Idaho. The system will supply water as the primary agent for fire extinguishment.
United Water Service Demand Analysis: A plan has been prepared for the transmission and
storage facilities as well as to guide the design of the distribution facilities for each phase of the
planned community. The estimated maximum daily total consumption for all phases is one
thousand seven hundred fifty (1,750) gallons per minute, which includes fire demand and a system
leakage allowance. The peak demand for any, one-hour period, for all phases is three thousand
three hundred fifty (3,350) gallons per minute. The transmission and storage facilities have been
designed to accommodate expansion of the system beyond Hidden Springs' original entitlement
and can accommodate one hundred twenty (120) additional dwelling units.
United Water Service Storage: Storage for domestic consumption and fire flow demand will be
provided from the existing Hidden Springs reservoir. These three hundred fifty thousand (350,000)
gallons tank is built, tested, and in service. A second reservoir may be constructed if required to
maintain system pressure in development areas north of Dry Creek at relatively high elevations.
United Water Service Zones: Hidden Springs encompasses domestic services that will range over
approximately nine hundred (900) vertical feet elevation. This range of elevation will require
several service zones. The IRPDWS require a minimum design pressure of thirty-five (35) pounds
per square inch (psi) and a maximum pressure of one hundred (100) psi. These pressure criteria
will be achieved through the use of eight (8) service zones, with average daily pressures ranging
from forty (40) psi at the top of each zone to ninety (90) psi at the bottom of each zone.
Booster pumps located at zone boundaries will supply domestic demands to the higher zones and
fill the storage tanks as required north of Dry Creek. Once the tanks are filled, the boosters will be
cycled off and supply will come from the tanks down through pressure reducing stations into the
lower zones.
United Water Service Distribution Mains: Water mains are required to connect supply, storage
and domestic service zones. The IRPDWS require that hydrants be connected to mains six inches


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 554
(6") and larger in diameter. Other mains will be larger as required for adequate fire flows. The fire
code requires that hydrants be spaced at intervals not to exceed five hundred feet (500') for
residential fire demands. Hydrant spacing can vary somewhat to accommodate intersections and
larger lots. Hydrant spacing near commercial and community structures will be decreased to about
three hundred fifty feet (350') or as local conditions require.
United Water Service Meters: This system includes meters for all users. The meter installation
includes an automatic readout device located near the meter or at a convenient location nearby.
These meters, data storage devices and database software together with a rate structure that
promotes conservation are the heart and soul of the water system management structure.
United Water Service to Units: Hidden Springs is committed to providing service to all
residential units in the community. The water distribution plan map shows the conceptual layout
of the water distribution system and is not intended to document a complete layout of the entire
community system. During design and plotting of individual phases, specific design and location
for all service lines will be finalized and documented in the appropriate documents.
Individual Wells: The large lots located north of the power lines will have individual, on site wells
that will provide domestic water and fire sprinkler water to meet NFPA 13D requirements.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 555
  Figure 3-E



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 556
8-13D-9-31: Water Quality Management
Water quality protection is a central strategic aspect of Hidden Springs. Certainly, the local and
state environmental regulations will not tolerate any foreseeable pollution to either ground water
or surface water. More important, the prospective market for land ownership in the proposed
development will not tolerate pollution or even the potential for pollution of surface water and
ground water. Water quality management is reflected throughout this application in the land uses,
in the infrastructure and in the way the owner's association operates. The following is a brief
summary of the various water quality management practices incorporated throughout this
application:
Water Conservation: The most effective way to manage water quality is to conserve water.
Hidden Springs policies include conservation of ground water used for domestic supply and for
irrigation. These conservation measures are intended to minimize the amount of natural ground
water brought into the consumption or usage cycle, leaving the most water at the source and the
ground water untouched. Conservation will take several general forms. Water will be conserved
by limiting the area and type of irrigation allowed throughout the development. Domestic supply
will be limited by promoting or requiring the use of water-saving showers and fixtures within each
individual house or commercial unit. Lastly, all sources of use throughout the proposed
development will be metered and a monitoring system established to track the use and abuse of
water supply throughout the development. Other specific water conservation strategies will be
applied where appropriate and are discussed in the following section.
Road And Drainage Design: Roads have been laid out throughout Hidden Springs in a manner
that takes advantage of local terrain and soil conditions. The roadway concepts in this application
include rural road section with large grass swales and various runoff features on-site which are
used to collect, treat, and dispose of excess drainage. Runoff from the site will not exceed
predevelopment levels. Runoff from hard surfaces on lots is intended to be retained on the lot site
in grassed areas or swales provided in or adjacent to the building envelope. On larger rural lots,
individual drainage retention and disposal features may take other forms. Generally, all lots will
be graded with retention swales strategically located on each lot.
Land Use Configuration: The absolute foundation for rational development including water
quality management is to utilize the natural soils and geologic features on-site to their optimum.
This type of planning is the basis of the configuration presented in this application. Water quality
management becomes a subconscious element of the layout process.
Wastewater Treatment System: The wastewater treatment system constructed for Hidden
Springs is a sophisticated aerated lagoon biological treatment system. For some individual lots
greater than two and one-half (2.5) acres, individual septic tanks and drain fields may be used. All
collection, treatment, and disposal features have been planned, designed, and constructed in
accordance with current regulatory guidelines and mandates. These guidelines and mandates have
been established to protect ground water quality. The good soils and geologic conditions
anticipated on this proposed site offer an excellent opportunity to implement these wastewater
treatment facilities without any impact on ground water.
Implementation Strategy: Hidden Springs will demonstrate the technical feasibility of successful
water quality management. If the technical feasibility is to become reality, certain implementation
milestones should be scheduled. In preliminary design the following milestones are important:



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 557
It is anticipated that the development of Hidden Springs will not negatively impact surface and
ground water quality in the vicinity.
During construction an environmental field coordinator should be on site. That person's
responsibility should include observations to assure that construction activities and constructed
facilities are in conformance with the intent and recommendations of the water quality
management concept introduced in this application.
After construction a suitable monitoring and management structure must be in place. It must have
the authority and ongoing resources to administer the water, wastewater treatment, and drainage
facilities.
Qualified professional management entities will be retained to supervise operations, maintenance
and monitoring of the water system and wastewater treatment system.
8-13D-9-32: Water Conservation
Water conservation is an important component of Hidden Springs' goals; and as such a
comprehensive water management program will be established for the project. The goal of the
water conservation plan is very simply to reduce the amount of water diverted, used, and consumed
in the proposed development.
The water conservation plan is presented below. Detailed implementation measures will be
developed and available for review as part of the planning process on a phase- by-phase basis. The
measures will adopt water conservation measures for both exterior and interior uses.
The water conservation plan is as follows:
       Building/landscape envelopes on all residential lots larger than ten thousand (10,000)
        square feet.
       Use of drought tolerant grasses and shrubs.
       Efficient irrigation equipment, scheduling, and management.
       Soil amendment in landscape areas.
       Mulch cover in landscape areas.
The interior water conservation plan will include covenants or architectural standards that seek to
implement interior water conservation. The plan will consider the following conservation
measures:
       High efficiency (low flow) showerheads, toilets, and faucets.
       Water meters and a water usage database that facilitate real time analysis.
       Timed controller for specific uses such as lawns.
Based on experience and current literature, it is reasonable to expect that water usage can be
significantly reduced below what is "normal" for the area. The planning target for conservation is
ten (10) to fifteen percent (15%) reduction from these "normal" predicted demands.
8-13D-9-33: Sewer System
General Description: Hidden Springs plans for a wide range of land uses and densities. The land
uses in this specific plan are tailored, in part, to the ability of the soils and geology to support those
uses. Land with soils and/or geology that cannot reasonably support development are left open and
undeveloped. Land with soils, geologic and/or topographic limitations that can support only


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 558
limited or low-density development are set aside for the larger rural lots. The more intense land
uses are reserved to those areas where solid geology and topography are well suited to those land
uses.
Planning for sewage collection, treatment and reuse requires attention to several goals.
      Use a method of collection that is well suited to the largely rural nature of the project.
      Use a method of treatment and disposal that is suited to the soils, geology, and
       hydrogeology of the area.
      Use the treated wastewater in a manner that is consistent with the goal of protecting
       groundwater quality.
      Do not discharge treated wastewater to surface water.
      Use a system that does not depend on treatment and disposal through existing systems in
       Boise and Eagle.
      Use a system that lends itself to professional management of operations and maintenance.
Lots greater than two and a half (2.5) acres located north of the power lines will be served through
individual systems with the same general processes described above.
A sewer collection network, central sewage lift station, wastewater treatment plant and treated
wastewater distribution pipeline system has been built, tested and is available for service. The
design, construction and operation of the system are regulated by the Idaho Department of Health
and Welfare-Division of Environmental Quality (IDHW- DEQ).
Individual Systems: The portion of Hidden Springs north of the power lines is single- family
homes on rural and farm/ranch lots. Generally, and in this case, individual wastewater treatment
systems are both practical and well-suited methods to manage domestic wastewater. In the current
proposed layout, the rural and farm/ranch lots have been sited on soils that do provide good
conditions for a limited number of individual septic tanks and drain fields. The areas for individual
septic tanks and drain fields will undergo three (3) levels of review before they are ultimately
permitted; those levels of review are:
      Planning,
      Preliminary, and
      Permitting.
The planning level of review is that which can be expected as a result of this application.
Information presented in the predevelopment conditions section in this application provides a good
description of the expected soils, geology, and groundwater conditions on the site. As mentioned,
these findings have guided the siting of various uses. They also provide information suitable to
establish general technical feasibility wastewater treatment systems and pressurized, subsurface
dosing systems in the areas identified for their usage. More specific information will be required
in subsequent review levels.
After this application is submitted and approved, the applicant will then proceed with preliminary
design and final design for each successive phase. The initial phase preliminary design will include
additional study for the area included in these phases. Typically, the preliminary study will include
the following tasks:
      Coordinate with the Central District Health (CDH) and the Department of Environmental
       Quality (DEQ) to confirm the specific scope of study for both individual and community


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 559
       and surface disposal systems.
      Open soil observation pits and prepare soils logs and strategically position groundwater
       observation and groundwater monitoring holes.
      Evaluate soils, topography, and geology.
      Develop design, sizing, and location recommendations for all systems.
      Provide findings to CDH for approval.
Community System: In the areas where lots are generally smaller than two and one-half (2.5)
acres, a wastewater treatment system is used.
The sewer collection network is a conventional gravity flow network of pipelines that flows to a
central sewage lift station. The sewage lift station pumps the sewage to the wastewater treatment
plant. The wastewater treatment plant is an aerated lagoon biological treatment system with a
treated wastewater storage impoundment. The biologically treated wastewater is stored through
the nongrowing season until it can be beneficially used for irrigation during the growing season.
The biologically treated wastewater will be pumped from the storage impoundment through a
filtration and disinfection system. The filtered and disinfected water will supply an irrigation
distribution pipeline network for common area landscape and agricultural irrigation. The final
treated wastewater will be applied at agronomic rates for beneficial use to maximize the reuse of
the water as a resource and protect groundwater quality. The wastewater collection and treatment
system are depicted on the sewer system plan.
System Diagram: The sewer system plan map, shows the conceptual layout of the community
sewer system.
The figure also shows the general area to be served with sewer as defined by the estimated
development envelopes. Therefore, the limits of areas served by sewer may not be precisely
concurrent with development areas shown in the master land use plan map, which depicts the
conceptual lot boundaries.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 560
   Figure 3-F



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 561
8-13D-9-34: Storm Drainage System
General Description: The natural drainage flows are altered by development of an area in three
(3) basic ways. First, drainage patterns are redirected and concentrated by grading and the
construction of roads. Second, flows are increased by the installation of more impervious surfaces
than previously existed. Finally, the quality of the water is impacted by the runoff from pavement
surfaces and fertilized landscaped areas. The storm drainage system proposed for Hidden Springs
will safely transport concentrated flows to management facilities strategically located to filter
nutrients and attenuate increased flows.
The diagrammatic drainage plan depicts internal drainage shed boundaries and possible locations
of major management features.
Design Criteria: The design of drainage facilities associated with the Ada County road system
falls under the jurisdiction of the Ada County Highway District. The design of the drainage
facilities for Hidden Springs is depicted in the proposed road section designs.
Conveyance Systems: Redirection and concentration of drainage flows will primarily be a result
of construction of the road network serving the project. A combination of rural and urban road
sections are proposed, depending on the development intensity of a particular area. In rural section
areas, grassed roadside swales will be the primary conveyance with culverts crossing at low points
and other critical locations. Curb and gutter will convey drainage to a more formal storm sewer
system of inlets and culverts in areas where urban road sections are proposed. In each case, the
conveyance systems will be designed to deliver the storm water runoff to the management facilities
while minimizing erosion.
Management Facilities: The storm water management facilities will be the primary drainage
feature for mitigating the increased flows generated from Hidden Springs. These features will
range from level swales graded parallel to the contour where flows are small to detention areas
where higher densities will create larger flows. Other examples of these facilities include seepage
trenches, dry wells, and ponds. A number of site-specific factors will affect the type of facility
chosen. Less dense development, as in the northeast portion of the development, will generate
lower flows requiring smaller structures in local applications. More dense development areas will
include regional facilities for management due to higher anticipated flows and site availability.
Soils and slope conditions, proximity to existing drainageways and size of the drainage area will
also dictate the selection of facility.
These management facilities will serve a second purpose of water quality management, which is
discussed below.
Water Quality Management: The quality of storm water runoff has become one of the most
sensitive issues associated with land development. Residual materials from pavement surfaces,
excess nutrients from fertilized landscaped areas and sediments carried with higher velocity flows
contribute to the degradation of surface water quality. A number of strategies will be employed at
Hidden Springs to minimize that degradation and to treat the water prior to discharge to the natural
drainageways.
Other sections of this application address management of landscaping. Relatively narrow road
sections are being proposed to minimize pavement areas while still providing safe travel ways.
Rural road sections are being emphasized to allow the treatment of runoff as close to the source as
possible, specifically in roadside grassed swales.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 562
As previously discussed, all surface water runoff will be directed to management facilities for the
control of runoff quantities. Hydrologic studies and management facilities will be updated and/or
expanded as land use changes occur. Detaining runoff in these facilities will also allow suspended
sediments and nutrients to settle. Between the source and these management facilities, erosion and
sediment control techniques will be utilized to "pretreat" the runoff. Vegetated roadside and culvert
discharge swales will provide nutrient uptake. Small check dams will slow channel flow velocities.
Riprapped aprons will slow velocities and disperse concentrated flows from storm drainage
systems. The emphasis will be on keeping the concentration of flows to a minimum and dispersing
those concentrated flows in vegetated swales at every opportunity. Not only does this promote
nutrient uptake but it also promotes infiltration and ground water recharge.
Surface water quality will be addressed both during and after construction of development
improvements. In addition to the methods previously discussed, temporary features employed
during construction will include silt fences, strawbale barriers, siltation basins, sediment traps and
other proven and appropriate best management practices. The temporary mitigation program will
focus on limiting the area of disturbance and treating the surface water as close to the source as
possible.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 563
 Figure 3-G


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 564
8-13D-9-35: Sheriff, Fire and Emergency Medical Services
Sheriff: Police protection will be provided to the residents of Hidden Springs through the Ada
County Sheriff's Office. All services and operations of the office will be coordinated through the
main office at the city/county law enforcement building. It is anticipated that services for Hidden
Springs will be through an agreement that is similar to the contract with the city of Eagle. The
office will be encouraged to provide a sheriff station outpost at the fire station described below.
Fire Services: Fire services will be provided by north Ada fire and rescue district. The district will
operate out of the fire station presently under construction in the village center.
Emergency Medical Services: Emergency medical services will be provided by aid units from
Ada County. The closest station to Hidden Springs is at the headquarters station, adjacent to the
north Ada fire and rescue district headquarters. This facility will adequately serve the community
without the need for additional facilities.
8-13D-9-36: Landscape Strategy
The landscape of Hidden Springs is intended to knit the natural and cultural themes of the
community together through careful layout, planning and design. The goal of the landscape
strategy will be to establish an impression of Hidden Springs that is both visually appealing and
cohesive as well as being a successful living environment. This will project a positive and active
character for the community that emphasizes its opportunities, its facilities, and the vitality of its
residents.
Objectives: Five key objectives that provide a framework for implementing the functional,
aesthetic, and technical parameters of the landscape are as follows:
      Develop a rural theme that builds upon the character, location, traditions, history, and self-
       sufficiency of Hidden Springs. Utilize traditional landscape elements such as hedgerows,
       windrows, orchards, groves, grasslands, and cultivated land as functioning components
       within the community. This will reinforce the theme while providing the foundation for
       phased implementation or sequencing of the project.
      Create an environment that is harmonious with the regional climatic conditions. This will
       be achieved through careful selection of plant materials that express the desired aesthetic
       qualities while meeting the maintenance and durability requirements of the project. A
       general list of plants that meet these criteria is included in Section 8-13D-52 of this Article.
      Exercise prudent use of water resources by implementing water conservation measures in
       the landscape. This will include implementing the principles of xeriscaping; setting limits
       on landscaped and irrigated areas within common areas and residential lots; and utilizing
       high- efficiency, low-volume irrigation systems.
      Establish a clear and logical orientation to the neighborhoods, and open space areas within
       Hidden Springs. Providing a sense of entry, a sense of place and a sense of community by
       understanding the needs in each zone is a critical landscape planning and design factor.
       These areas can be characterized as outlined below.
  Entries: At Seaman's Gulch and Dry Creek Roads to the west and Dry Creek Road to the east,
  entries to the community will be characterized by open, country roads lined with native grasses
  punctuated by select plantings of deciduous tree groves that will reinforce these as community
  gateways.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 565
  Riparian Areas: The Dry Creek, Currant Creek and McFarland Creek corridors will be
  characterized by naturalistic placement of trees and shrubs that will enhance and replicate the
  existing riparian environment while providing wildlife habitat.
  Agricultural Areas: Within the Dry Creek Valley and Seaman's Gulch Road area cultivated
  croplands with orchards, windrows and hedgerows will be reestablished.
  Rural Residential Neighborhoods: Irrigated landscape envelopes will contrast with enhanced
  native shrubs and grasses outside those envelopes.
  Preserves: Open grasslands with scattered native scrub and tree cover. These areas will remain
  in their natural state and will be selectively enhanced as appropriate to the land and wildlife
  management parameters of the project.
  Town: Traditional street trees in planting strips and medians with front and rear yard domestic
  gardens in the residential and commercial lots.
      Provide for ongoing maintenance and management of the common area landscape through
       the homeowners' association, CC and R's, and coordination with ACHD for road and right
       of way maintenance.
      A list of approved species will be developed specific to the Hidden Springs site that reflects
       water conservation and wildfire strategies and will be a component of the design guidelines.
8-13D-9-37: Essential Public Services and Anticipated Financing Plan Introduction:
The Planned Community District regulations anticipate that a planned community will be
developed in phases over time. (See Section 8-13D-22 of this Article.) The regulations require that
each phase of development include sufficient essential public services to serve the anticipated
population of that phase and to provide for integration of such services into the planned
community. This Section describes the phasing of improvements, estimated costs of the essential
public services of each phase and the alternative methods of financing the costs of installing and
maintaining these essential public services as well as mitigating material negative economic
impacts of the community.
As described in the Phasing Plan, the first phase of development will feature a mix of unit types
within the areas south of Dry Creek. Subsequent development will occur in the balance of the
project south and north of Dry Creek.
The first phase of development has been identified and will include a total of eighty to one hundred
sixty-two (80–162) residential units. It is anticipated that this phase would include a mixture of the
following lot types: farm/ranch lots, rural lots, large lots, regular lots, village homes, and town
homes.
Sufficient infrastructure, including essential public services, will be developed initially to support
this phase of development. Subsequent development will occur together with the necessary
infrastructure, at a pace and within site areas in response to market conditions and the need to have
an integrated community at the completion of each phase. For purposes of this Section, the
financing plan is considered for the first phase and the combination of all subsequent phases.
The remainder of this Section considers each of the essential public services.
Roads And Streets: The proposed roads and circulation plan includes several categories of
improvements:


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 566
   • Project Improvements: Representing the rural collector roads which provide the primary
     access and circulation within the project.
   • Residential Site Improvements: Which provide the secondary roads within the individual
     project areas.
The street improvements associated with the first phase will include:
   • Project Improvements: The realignment, widening, and paving of Dry Creek Road, and
     Seaman's Gulch Road as realigned within the site area. However, the existing alignment of
     Dry Creek Road will remain in its present condition and location.
   • Residential Site Improvements: The construction of rural residential local and secondary
     roads as necessary to serve first phase developments.
Anticipated Costs
The projected costs of these improvements are estimated to be:


                               Phase I               Later Phases                    Total
  Project cost                 $ 336,400.00          $ 900,000.00            $1,236,400.00
  Residential sites            1,051,000.00          7,947,860.00            8,998,860.00
  Total                        $1,387,400.00         $8,847,860.00           $10,235,260.00

The project and residential site improvements will be dedicated to ACHD. Impact fees assessed
on the project are estimated to be $3,737,901.00 as follows:

  Development Type        Units     Assumed         Impact Fees/Unit                Total Fee
                                    Category
                                                    Regular      Extraordinary
  Farm/ranch lot          30        Single-         $1,039.00    $2,589.00          $108,840.00
                                    family>1,500 sf


  Rural                   20        Single-         1,039.00     2,589.00           72,560.00
                                    family>1,500 sf


  Large lot               205       Single-         1,039.00     2,589.00           743,740.00
                                    family>1,500 sf


  Regular lot             483       Single-         1,039.00     2,589.00           1,752,324.00
                                    family>1,500 sf




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 567
  Village home             162       Single-         802.00       2,589.00          549,342.00
                                     family>1,500 sf


  Town home                135       Multi-family    734.00       2,589.00          448,605.00
  Commercial               30,000 Mixed              2,083.00/                      62,490.00
                                  commercial         1,000
                                                                                    $3,737,901.00

*From Road Impact Fee Schedule - Far Rural.
These fees will be applied to capital improvements as per the "Extraordinary Impact Fee
Agreement" of August 19, 1998, between ACHD and Hidden Springs.
Mechanism For Initiating and Maintaining Each Phase
As approved by ACHD in the subdivision improvement agreement, each phase will include
sufficient improvements to serve the new lots. These improvements will include the necessary
project level road improvements.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts
No adverse economic impacts were identified for the highway district as a result of this project.
Water System: Phasing of Improvements
The proposed water system plan includes two (2) categories of improvements: supply/storage and
distribution (see water supply and water system Sections 8-13D-29 and 8-13D-30 of this Article
for complete description of water supply and system alternatives).
The water distribution system will include water for domestic use as well as water for fire
protection. These facilities can be extended incrementally as roads are built and lots developed.
Cost
The projected costs of these improvements are estimated to be:


                                 Phase I               Later Phases                    Total
  Project cost                   $ 224,000.00          $ 84,000.00            $ 308,000.00
  Residential sites              787,000.00            5,815,235.00           6,602,235.00
  Total                          $1,011,000.00         $5,899,235.00          $6,910,235.00

Mechanism For Initiating and Maintaining Each Phase
The initial phase of development is planned to include all improvements necessary to provide
service.
The subsequent phases will respond to market conditions. Plans for each subsequent phase will
include sufficient improvements to serve the new lots. These improvements will include the
necessary reservoirs and distribution system.
The operator of the water system is United Water Company, which is responsible for all operation


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 568
and maintenance.
Mitigation Of Adverse Economic Impacts
Fees for service will be set to cover operating costs, fund depreciation, and provide a return on
investment, consistent with regulations set by the Idaho Public Utilities Commission.
Sewer System: Phasing of Improvements
The proposed wastewater treatment plan calls for a community wastewater collection and
treatment system based on an aerated lagoon biological treatment system with a treated wastewater
storage impoundment. On some lots larger than two and one-half (2.5) acres, individual septic
tanks will be used. The first system would be developed as part of the first phase.
Cost And Financing
The projected costs of the improvements are estimated to be:


                               Phase I                Later Phases                      Total
  Project cost                 $ 500,000.00           $ 667,213.00            $ 1,167,213.00
  Residential sites            553,000.00             2,006,021.00            2,559,021.00
  Total                        $1,053,000.00          $2,673,234.00           $3,726,234.00

The cost of individual septic tanks for large lots is not included here but will be a cost to home
builders.
Mechanism For Initiating and Maintaining Each Phase
The initial phase of development is planned to include all improvements necessary to provide
service. The subsequent phases will respond to market conditions. Plans for each subsequent phase
will include sufficient improvements to serve the new lots.
These improvements will include the necessary community collection and treatment systems.
The Hidden Springs sewer company will operate and maintain the wastewater treatment system.
Mitigation of Adverse Economic Impacts
Fees for service will be set to cover operating costs and fund depreciation, and there should not be
any adverse financial impact.
Utilities: Utilities include power, telephone, cable TV and natural gas. These services must be
extended to and throughout the development and will be located beneath or adjacent to streets and
roads as were depicted in the roads and circulation plan map. These extensions will occur as
development proceeds. The portion of the cost to be borne by the project is estimated to be:

           Phase I           Subsequent Phases                                      Total
  $184,000.00                $1,318,000.00                              $1,502,000.00

The cost of these improvements will be funded privately by the developer and potentially by capital
investments by utility providers.



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 569
Mitigation of Adverse Economic Impacts
Fees for service will be set to cover operating costs, fund depreciation, and provide a return on
investment, consistent with regulations set by the Idaho Public Utilities Commission.

Landscape And Trails: The trails/open space plan and landscaping plan include a variety of
landscape features and recreational amenities: a greenbelt, pedestrian easements, trails, an
equestrian center, preserve areas, a community center with recreational fields, and a community
park.
The cost of the landscape, trail and recreational improvements are estimated to be:

                         Phase I                Later Phases                          Total
  Landscape              $214,000.00            $ 958,000.00               $1,172,000.00
  Trails                 156,000.00             168,000.00                 324,000.00
  Recreation             20,000.00              600,000.00                 620,000.00
  Total                  $390,000.00            $1,726,000.00              $2,116,000.00

These facilities will serve both residents of the community as well as other citizens of the County
and elsewhere.
Maintenance of the open space and recreation features are anticipated to be provided by the
community association or the developer. The improvements would be held in common ownership
and maintenance would be funded by community association fees. Alternatively, some or all of
these amenities could be conveyed to the County Parks Department or some public or quasi-public
entity upon completion.
Mechanism for Initiating and Maintaining Each Phase
Landscape and recreational features will be developed in phases along with the other infrastructure
items. The features developed in each phase are created to assure the marketability of the project.
The additional membership of homeowners as development proceeds will provide additional
community association resources to maintain the facilities.
Mitigation of Adverse Economic Impacts
There are no adverse economic impacts identified for providers of these public services.
Schools: The economic impact analysis included in this application considers the school facility
needs associated with the community. The development would require the following portion of
the capacity of the indicated prototype school facilities:

                            Phase I           Subsequent Phases                         Total

  Elementary                6.2%              34.1%                                     40.3%
  Junior high               1.9%              10.7%                                     12.6%
  High                      1.0%              4.2%                                      5.2%



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 570
Initially, the students can be bussed to existing schools.
The Boise School District estimates the cost of a prototype facility to be approximately:

  Elementary                                               $6 million
  Junior high                                              $16 million
  High school                                              $25 million

Accordingly, the cost attributable to enrollment for the development at build-out would thus be:

  Elementary                                           $2.4 million
  Junior high                                          $2.0 million
  High school                                          $1.3 million

The district has recently constructed a new elementary school (Bogart Lane) and junior high (Gary
Lane) which will in part service the Hidden Springs area. The district will likely require additional
sites as growth continues in this general area. A school site will continue to be made available to
the district.
The cost of new schools is typically funded by bond issues. However, with the development of the
community, the new homeowners will share in paying off unfunded capital costs (outstanding
bonds issued to construct existing school facilities) as well as the capital costs of additional
facilities constructed in the district.
Mechanism for Initiating and Maintaining Each Phase
As noted, the district has recently constructed new schools in the general area of the project. This
is an outcome of a recent successful bond election.
Mitigation of Adverse Economic Impacts
As presented in the economic impact analysis, the lag in collection of property tax would result in
required expenditures exceeding revenues in the first year after homes are sold in phase I. However,
the surplus in the second year would offset that deficit, and surpluses would exceed expenditures
in every year thereafter.
Fire District: It is estimated that Hidden Springs (including the 1999 annexation of 120 acres
reduced to ninety-seven (97) acres due to the transfer of twenty-three (23) acres to Cartwright
Ranch planned community in 2007) would require thirty-five percent (35%) to forty percent (40%)
of the service capacity of a new fire station. Such a station would also serve the growing population
outside Hidden Springs.
A new fire station is presently being constructed in Hidden Springs. The station will be operated
by the North Ada County Fire and Rescue District (NACF&R)

Cost and Financing of Improvements:
A new fire station is estimated by the district to cost:



ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 571
  Building                                            $612,180.00
  Equipment                                           $337,000.00
                                                      $949,180.00

Mechanism for Initiating and Maintaining Each Phase:
As per the agreement between Hidden Springs community LLC and North Ada County Fire and
Rescue, fifty percent (50%) of the tax revenue collected by NACF&R from the development area
will be used to pay back Hidden Springs for the construction of the new station.
Mitigation of Adverse Economic Impacts:
The economic impact analysis concluded that there would be no adverse impacts related to the
development.
Other Jurisdictions: The economic impact analysis did not identify any other capital facility
needs. Further, there were no adverse impacts from operation other than a shortfall to the County
in the first year after homes are sold, because of the lag in recognizing increases in assessed
valuation. However, services could be provided at adequate levels within the revenues available
in that year.
Financing Plan: The costs of the essential public services necessary for the community and the
additional amenities discussed above will be provided either by the developer of the project or
from a local improvement district (LID) or other governmental or quasi-governmental agency
formed for the specific purpose of providing such financing.
With respect to an LID or other governmental or quasi-governmental agencies, as a potential
source of financing for a variety of improvements, including public roads and streets, sewer, water,
landscaping, trails, and other community facilities "The governing body of any municipality has
the power to make or cause to be made any one or more of the following improvements. [Excerpts
only]
    1) To establish grades and layout, establish, open, extend and widen any street, sidewalk,
alley, or off-street parking facility;
    2) To construct, improve, repair, light, grade, pave, repave, surface, resurface, curb, gutter,
sewer, drain, landscape and beautify any street, sidewalk, or alley;
    5) To plant, or cause to be planted, set out, cultivate, and maintain lawns, shade trees or other
landscaping;
    8) To acquire, construct, reconstruct, extend, maintain, or repair parks and other recreational
facilities; ..."
Under an LID, bonds would be issued to finance improvements with bonds repaid through
assessments on the Hidden Springs property. The developer would be responsible for assessments
on each parcel until it is sold to a homebuilder and ultimately a homeowner.
A local improvement district could be formed by Ada County, the Ada County Highway District
or other applicable governmental entity with the approval of sixty percent (60%) of property
owners (in this case the developer). Bonds are issued, secured by the development parcels. If the
developer or subsequent homebuilder or homeowner fails to pay assessments, the local
improvement district forecloses on the property. The risk of adverse impact on the issuing agency
because of foreclosure is reduced in three (3) ways:


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 572
      By statute, the value of the assessment cannot exceed the value of the real property
       including improvements. There should be adequate value received in the event of
       foreclosure.
      As a practical matter, the value of the property should greatly exceed the assessment.
      A guarantee fund can be set up, funded by a bond process to provide monies to make bond
       payments.
In summary, an LID or LIDs may be used to fund some of the essential public services and other
amenities. As noted earlier, whether such improvements are financed privately by the developer
or through an LID, the costs of the improvements are borne by current and future property owners.
Financial Assurances: The applicant, Grossman Family Properties, is an affiliate of Grossman
Company Properties, one of the premier developers in the western United States. Founded in 1964
by Sam Grossman, a twenty-five (25) year resident of Idaho, Grossman Company Properties has
been involved in the acquisition, development and management of shopping centers, hotels, mixed
use developments, residential and mobile home communities, as well as agricultural and land
development projects throughout the west for over thirty-two (32) years.
Grossman Company Properties is also one of the financially healthiest and most active developers
in the country. Current development projects include the recently completed thirty-three-million-
dollar ($33,000,000.00) renovation of the Arizona Biltmore hotel and resort in Phoenix, Arizona.
With over one hundred fifty-five (155) employees and offices in Phoenix, Arizona, and Boise,
Idaho, Grossman Company Properties is one of the most experienced and successful developers
in the west.
As part of the application for each plat of Hidden Springs, a detailed outline of anticipated
construction costs and operating and maintenance budgets will be submitted. The plat application
will also identify specific responsibilities and appropriate assurances for financing of
improvements and ongoing maintenance and operation of essential public services.
8-13D-9-38: Zoning Map
The official zoning map is on file with the Ada County Development Services Department.
8-13D-39:    Hidden Springs Legal Description
The Hidden Springs planned community legal description is as set forth in Ada County ordinance
705.
8-13D-10:      Design Requirements
8-13D-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT STATEMENT:
Overall Purpose/Intent: The following guidelines illustrate the general level of design and
development control which Hidden Springs intends to apply to development of the residential and
nonresidential parcels within the overall project. A design review committee (DRC) will be set up
to review site plans, architecture and landscape designs in Hidden Springs. The DRC reserves the
right to modify these standards to be more restrictive or different in design character, as long as
general project intent and theme is maintained. DRC responsibilities will include the review of
building plans, elevations, materials, colors, fencing, signage, lighting, landscaping and parking
arrangements prior to permit application to Ada County.
Specific responsibilities and standards will be further defined in the Declaration of Protective
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC&Rs) which will also serve to control development at


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 573
Hidden Springs. The DRC shall have sole authority in determining compliance with the CC&Rs
and design guidelines.
8-13D-10-2: Architecture
Hidden Springs is not intended to be developed with one prevalent architectural style. Variety in
the architecture is encouraged. An emphasis, however, will be placed on indigenous architectural
styles, the use of quality materials and complementary relationships between building and site
design features.
       1. Building scale and height should relate to topography, lot sizes and setbacks. A mix of
          one (1) and two (2) story units in the rural residential neighborhoods will be
          encouraged. Custom homes on slope sensitive lots should use hillside adaptive design
          techniques such as post and beam construction and daylight basements to minimize
          streetside and rear yard facade exposure. Building heights in village and town home
          residential neighborhoods and nonresidential uses may be taller but should have a
          massing and scale compatible with adjoining residential uses.
       2. The visual bulk of hillside residential development should be reduced so structures do
          not stand out prominently when seen from a distance. Building form should conform
          to site topography, and not overshadow natural site features. Step structures with slope
          and cut into hillsides should be utilized to reduce visual bulk.




       3. Building height should be minimized on highly visible ridge areas by avoiding multi-
          story houses that "skyline" on ridges and by locating residential buildings so as not to
          impact views near ridges.
       4. A mix of housing styles and types is encouraged. No adjacent single- family detached
          home will be permitted to have the same plan, elevation, or color. Variety in elevations
          and materials is essential.
       5. Homes on farm/ranch, rural and large lots shall have side or rear-entry garages (garage
          doors not directly facing the street). Homes on village lots shall provide rear-entry
          garages where access is provided.
       6. Private exterior living spaces such as porches, decks and patios are encouraged in the
          design of each unit in the village and town home neighborhoods.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 574
       7. Roof pitch variations are preferred. No flat roofs or rock covered roofs are permitted.
          Tile, concrete tile, architectural grade composition shingle or other materials approved
          by the DRC are permitted. Wood shake roofs are prohibited.




       8. Passive solar designs, energy and water conservation measures are encouraged.
       9. Building materials and color schemes should blend with the natural landscape of earth
          tones and grassland vegetation but minimize fuel potential for wildfires. The use or
          incorporation of fire resistant or treated wood, stone, and/or brick on exteriors is
          encouraged. Material changes, fenestration changes and variations of wall and window
          surface planes are also encouraged. In order to avoid the appearance of a false applique,
          no material changes shall be allowed on corners or where structures abut common
          areas. If material changes occur, they must occur at logical changes in building form.
       10. Windows shall be sensitively placed to protect privacy of adjacent residences.
       11. View corridors are critical to and from all open spaces. The siting of buildings,
           accessory structures, fences, etc., and their impact on views and adjacent uses shall be
           carefully considered.
       12. Mechanical equipment on roofs, aboveground transformers, satellite dishes, active
           solar panels, utility equipment and loading, service and storage areas shall be screened
           from view from the streets, pathways, public areas, and adjacent uses. Trash enclosures
           and maintenance structures shall be designed to be compatible in style, materials and
           colors with the main building and shall be of masonry type construction.
8-13D-10-3: Site Design
Parcel developers, builders and lot owners will be encouraged to use innovative and
environmentally responsive techniques in designing the final configuration of lots, buildings,
roadways, drives, etc. These techniques include, but are not limited to, the following:




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 575
     1. Minimize development intensity in the highly visible valley floor and concentrate
        development in more hidden valley coves.




     2. Minimize development on highly visible hillside slopes. Keep development
        predominantly at the top and base of slopes.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 576
     3. Cluster buildings to maximize contiguous open space and minimize disruption to native
        vegetation.
     4. Tuck buildings into topographic folds and site ridge-top units in saddles to minimize
        "skylining."




     5. Offset and stagger building envelopes on rural residential lots to permit views between
        units and prevent the formation of a uniform wall of building faces.




     6. On village and town home lots, buildings should align on build-to setback line to create
        a uniform edge to the town center streets.
     7. Keep views at the terminus of roadway intersections open to amenities, open space, and
        creek beds.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 577
       8. Avoid steep slopes (>25%) and soils with poor bearing capacities.
       9. Site buildings to capitalize on passive cooling/heating.
8-13D-10-4: Site Grading and Drainage
Introduction: Lots in the residential neighborhoods will be individually graded in a site sensitive
manner to reduce impacts. Cut and fill slopes along roadways will be carefully designed to
minimize visual impacts. Grading and revegetation guidelines are outlined below and shall comply
with Ada County and Central Health Department requirements. Grading and drainage should be
kept to a minimum and should be performed in a way that respects significant natural features and
visually blends with existing topography. Carefully analyze existing soil and naturally occurring
drainage patterns prior to development to minimize grading and its impact on the overall drainage
basin. Detailed geotechnical and hydrological reports may be required prior to grading activities.
Guidelines:
       1. All disturbed areas shall be revegetated or restored, with proper erosion and dust control
          methods. Stockpiling, erosion, and loss of topsoil shall be minimized.
       2. Revegetation shall be done as soon as possible after finish grading has been completed,
          usually in early Spring or in the early Fall.
       3. Topsoil that is removed shall be centrally located with respect to construction phasing.
          The stockpile may also be protected by seeding, watering, mulching, or covering.
       4. All grading shall follow Ada County requirements. Slopes of three to one (3:1) or less
          are preferred with overall finish grades blending with natural landforms to the greatest
          extent possible. Slopes greater than three to one (3:1) shall be stabilized through such
          means as terracing or planting. Custom retaining walls and landscaping must be used
          to screen cut and fill areas. Minimize grading on slopes greater than twenty five percent
          (25%). Soften slope banks through use of contoured grading at toe and top of slope.
          Provide rounded transitions and variable slope gradients. Avoid rounded long slopes
          with sharp transitions.
       5. Individual site sensitive grading, as well as appropriate hillside adaptive construction,
          shall be provided on hillside lots, and shall be reviewed and approved by the DRC.
       6. Detention basins, silt drains, and fences and temporary revegetation should be used in
          conjunction with other earthwork operations for sediment and drainage control during
          construction.
       7. Avoid construction in areas with unstable soils that may require costly construction and
          greater impacts to natural conditions. Provide erosion control measures on cut and fill
          slopes, and on highly permeable soils. Locate individual septic systems carefully to
          avoid ground water impacts.
       8. Use naturally occurring drainage patterns to avoid increased runoff and potential
          erosion problems. Use grass swale and detention ponds for gradual release and ground
          water recharge.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 578
       9. Encourage split-level building to minimize grading and complement natural slope.
       10. A graded slope that exceeds thirty three percent (33%) or eight feet (8') in height shall
           have special slope treatment and/or retaining walls that stabilize the slope and minimize
           scarring. Minimize tall visible retaining wall structures by stepping with grade. Use
           natural materials (stone, wood, etc.) and natural colors for retaining walls wherever
           practical.
8-13D-10-5: Landscape Design
Introduction: The landscape, both existing and proposed, is an integral element of the rural
character at Hidden Springs. The preservation and enhancement of traditional landscape elements,
such as hedgerows, agricultural fields, tree groves, and treelined stream corridors, are critical to
maintaining the rural character of Dry Creek Valley.
Additional landscaping should be added to enhance the aesthetic quality of the community and
serve a wide variety of functions, including glare reduction, visual screening, wind buffer, spatial
definition, highlighting architecture, guiding circulation, and creating wildlife habitat.
Landscaping within Hidden Springs shall integrate resource efficient design measures and
environmentally compatible plants to ensure drought-resistant and water- conserving vegetation is
an integral part of the design. All landscaping within the project should be provided in accordance
with the requirements identified in the Hidden Springs Specific Plan.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 579
  Guidelines:
     1. Colors and textures of plant material should be consistent within the overall project
        common areas yet vary within the individual residential clusters or parcels in order to
        create unity in the common areas and variety in the individual parcels.
     2. The ultimate mature size of plants will be evaluated on maintenance, life span and
        functional requirements. In areas where screening is needed, plants should be selected
        upon their form and branching density.
     3. A series of linear rows of trees, or "hedgerows," should be planted in the valley floor
        to help maintain the site's rural character and break down the scale of the residential
        villages.
     4. Street trees of significant size should be planted in the Village Center to shade
        sidewalks, parking, and roadway, and to minimize reflected solar heat.




     5. All plant materials should be evaluated in terms of how well they enhance the
        architecture, existing plant material, enclose spaces and link various activities within
        Hidden Springs.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 580
     6. Climate influences should be considered in order to get maximum gain out of plant
        material. Deciduous plants along the south side and west side of buildings will be
        recommended since they provide summer shade while allowing winter sun to enter the
        building. Special consideration shall be given to trees with tap roots and/or noninvasive
        root growth.
     7. Plants selected should be grouped/zoned according to water consumption rates and soil
        requirements. To aid in water conservation, plantings should be confined to planting
        beds. The use of mulches at appropriate depths shall also be encouraged.
     8. Plants which require little maintenance should be favored over those which require
        constant spraying and pruning. Special attention shall be given to appropriate plant
        spacings, as this will reduce unwarranted pruning.
     9. Plant life cycle should be considered with plant materials. An appropriate mix of slow,
        medium, and fast growth rates shall be encouraged. The result of a proper mix will be
        a long living, increased drought tolerant and disease resistant stand of vegetation.
     10. Proper turf management aids in soil erosion control, dust stabilization, temperature
         moderation and high ground water recharge. The type and selection of turf areas should
         be selected in the same manner as all other plantings. When seeding or sodding a new
         lawn, the best management practices appropriate for the Treasure Valley and this
         specific property should be utilized. When hydro-mulching, the grass seed should be
         mixed into a slurry of water and cellulose and sprayed into the seed bed so that seed,
         mulch and even a permanganate fertilizer can be applied in one step.
     11. Irrigation is critical for healthy plant material, with deep watering the best way to apply
         water. This promotes deeper roots which are not as susceptible to drought.
        All permanent systems are to be below ground and fully automatic. Use of water
        conserving systems including, but not limited to, drip irrigation and moisture sensors is
        strongly encouraged. Irrigation heads, where used, are to be adjusted to minimize
        runoff. All irrigation heads adjacent to paved areas, curbs and turf shall be of pop-up
        type.
        Backflow control devices are to be located so as to minimize their adverse visual
        impact. In addition, such control devices shall be screened by shrubs.
     12. Undeveloped lots or portions of lots outside the building envelope should not be
         irrigated or ornamentally landscaped. These areas should, however, be enhanced with
         native, drought- resistant shrubs, grasses, and wildflowers to minimize weed growth
         and erosion.
     13. Preserve mature trees, hedgerows, and wood lots, and incorporate as design elements
         of proposed developments.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 581
     14. Utilize open space and landscape buffers to transition from differing land uses, for
         example farm and rural lots to town center.
     15. Encourage buffers between conflicting uses in the Village Center areas (residential vs.
         commercial), and on farm lots (agricultural practices vs. residential). Planting buffers
         should screen all off-street parking areas to the maximum extent practical.
     16. Avoid plantings that obstruct sightlines at intersections and obstruct access to utility
         equipment.
     17. Provide transition areas with low fuel volume plants where high fire hazard areas occur,
         (adjacent to undeveloped valley, grasslands, wooded hillsides).




     18. Require all new landscaping material to be drought tolerant, native and from a list of
         less palatable and nonpalatable (to wildlife) plant species.
     19. Encourage replanting of wildlife food species and plant species which enhance critical
         habitat for wildlife.
     20. Prohibit the installation and require the complete removal of noxious plants and weeds
         within the development envelope.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 582
ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 583
                                           Approved Plant List
                          Botanical Name                                   Common Name
                                                  Trees
  Acer grandidentatum                                      Rocky Mountain Maple
  Alnus sinuata                                            Sitka Alder
  Amelanchier alnifolia                                    Serviceberry
  Celtis occidentalis                                      Hackberry
  Crataeugus sp.                                           Hawthorn
  Gleditsia triacanthos                                    Honey Locust
  Populus sp.                                              Poplar
  Pyrus calleryana                                         Bradford Pear
  Rhus typhina                                             Sumac
                                           Shrubs/GroundCovers
  Artemesia tridentata                                     Big Sage
  Atriplex canescens                                       Fourwing Saltbrush
  Caragana arborescens                                     Siberian Pea Shrub
  Cercocarpus montanus                                     Mountain Mohogany
  Chaenomeles sp.                                          Quince
  Chrysothamnus nauseosus                                  Rubber Rabbitbush
  Cornus stolonifera                                       Asanti Dogwood
  Cornus stolonifera                                       Redtwig Dogwood
  "Bailey"
  Cornus stolonifera                                       Shrub Dogwood
  (Kelsey Dwarf)
  Elaegnus angustifolia                                    Russian Olive
  Mahonia repens                                           Creeping Oregon grape
  Physocarpus opulifolius                                  Ninebark
  Philadelphus lewisii                                     Syringa
  Potentilla sp.                                           Cinquefoil
  Prunus sp.                                               Spiraea
  Rhus trilobata                                           Oakbrush Sumac
  Ribes sp.                                                Current
  Rosa woodsii                                             Woods Rose
  Salix exigua                                             Sandbar Willow
  Symphoricarpos albus                                     Snowberry




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 584
8-13D-10-6: Signage
Introduction: The signage and graphics program within Hidden Springs will follow the overall
"ranch" theme of the project. Signage will further reinforce design concepts and provide
identification for the residential areas and nonresidential uses. Signage will also be provided for
traffic control, along pathways and for public information purposes. In all cases, signs will be
kept simple to reduce, not contribute to visual clutter.
Signage throughout the project shall be consistent and compatible. Sizes, styles, and
configurations will vary depending on the specific purpose, activity level and building materials.
   Guidelines:
       1. General:
           a. Lighting and landscaping shall be considered an integral part of all signage
              proposals.
           b. Regardless of style, signs constructed of brick, concrete, wood, stucco, stone, and
              other natural materials with painted or relief cut letters are encouraged.
           c. Prohibited signs shall include:
               •   Signs which constitute a hazard to traffic of pedestrians;
               •   Signs located within any stream or drainage channel;
               •   Mobile signs or portable signs; balloons, flags, or kite style signs;
               •   Inflatable signs;
               •   Signs which produce odor, sound, smoke, flame, or other emissions;
               •   Signs which imitate or simulate official signs, or which use yellow or red
                   blinking or intermittent lights resembling danger or warning signals;
               •   Signs using strobe lights or individual light bulbs exceeding 75 watts;
               •   Signs on public property or right of way or signs attached to utility poles,
                   streetlights, fences, barns, sheds, or other similar structures; and
               •   Roof signs and billboards.
           d. Free-standing signs should be in proportion/scale to surrounding elements.
              Emphasis should be placed on sizing signs in relationship to the vehicular vs.
              pedestrian traffic they serve. Sign faces should only be large enough to
              accommodate the minimum typeface size and quantity needed to convey the
              intended message.
       2. Residential Signage:
           Identification signs will be provided at project entrances as part of the overall entry
           statement to Hidden Springs. Each residential area may have its own entry statement
           and signage theme or color combinations.
           Monument signs, piers, walls, freestanding monolith/pylons shall be used.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 585
           Project or residential identification signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height or one
           hundred twenty (120) square feet in area and may be provided on each side of an
           entrance street. Lighting of residential entrance identification signs shall be indirect,
           with screened wall or ground-mounted light sources.
       3. Commercial Signage: Commercial signage shall be kept small and subdued to respect
          the residential character of the community. Commercial establishments shall have a
          maximum of one identification sign either hung directly on the front facade of the
          structure from a porch column or roof, or on a post at the entry wall. Commercial signs
          shall not exceed forty-eight (48) square feet in area on facades and twenty-four feet
          (24') if hung from a freestanding post.
       4. Special purpose signs:
           a. Directional, informational, and regulatory signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in
              height or sixteen (16) square feet in area and shall be compatible throughout the
              project.
           b. Temporary signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in height and twenty- four (24) square
              feet in area. The location and number of temporary signs shall be subject to approval
              by the DRC.
           c. Political signs are permitted to be displayed only on private property and only two
              (2) weeks prior to an election. They must be removed twenty-four (24) hours after
              the election.
8-13D-10-7: Lighting
Introduction: Lighting in the Hidden Springs community should serve different purposes in the
Village Center and rural/residential areas. In the Village Center, small scale intimate lighting for
streets, sidewalks, building entries and residential lots is encouraged. In rural residential and along
rural roads, lighting should be minimized to reduce light pollution in the community. Main
intersections should be lighted for safety purposes only. Lighting shall be functional and efficient,
while keeping with the design themes of Hidden Springs. Lighting will vary from larger scale
illumination of major roadways to intimate lighting of pathways, building entries or residential


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 586
lots. In general, to reduce light pollution in the development, overall lighting shall be minimized.
Lighting guidelines are outlined below.
Guidelines: All lighting shall be in accordance with the Hidden Springs Zoning Ordinance and
subject to approval by the DRC.
       1. Fixtures will be of a scale consistent with use.
       2. Light fixture style, type and color shall be consistent and compatible throughout the
          project. The style of light standards along public streets shall be subject to the approval
          of Ada County and ACHD.
       3. In all cases, lighting shall not extend beyond its tasks. Cut-off fixtures shall be used as
          appropriate.




       4. Illumination levels shall not be in excess of what is required. Lighting design shall
          address specific functions of activity areas. Site lighting shall be indirect in character.
       5. If lighting for signage is provided, it shall relate to signage and graphics and shall
          heighten the visibility and appearance of signage.
       6. Lighting fixtures shall be located so as to minimize shadows and interference.
       7. Spillover lighting shall not be permitted. Lighting shall reflect away from adjoining
          properties.
       8. Energy consumption shall be considered in determining lighting fixtures.
       9. Light fixtures and sizes should match architectural style of buildings and be
          proportional to them.
       10. Illumination levels should not exceed minimum required levels for its purpose. Design
           should address specific activities to be lighted.
       11. Use of low wattage high life lighting products is encouraged. Use of photo voltaic or
           other renewable energy sources should be explored.


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 587
8-13D-10-8: Fences and Walls
Introduction: Fencing will be used for safety and security purposes, to control pets, enhance area
themes, delineate uses and for screening. All fencing shall be approved by the DRC.
       1. A consistent fencing theme will be required throughout each individual residential area
          at Hidden Springs.
Guidelines:
       1. Fencing on farm/ranch and rural lots shall be located within the building envelope.
          Additional perimeter fencing may be permitted in conjunction with agricultural
          practices. (See subsection 8-13D-5C2 of this Article.)




       2. Fencing on large lots shall be located within the building envelope without exception.
       3. Village and town homes are encouraged to have perimeter fencing located on the
          perimeter lot lines.
       4. Fencing within front yards shall be limited to low (maximum 42-inch height) picket
          and rail style fencing, walls, hedges, etc. Taller, more opaque fencing should be used
          in rear and side yards where screening is important. Taller, more opaque rear and side
          yard fencing should terminate into the sidewalls of residence at least five feet (5')
          behind front/streetside facade.
       5. Adequate site distances shall be maintained along roadways and intersections per Ada
          County codes and ordinances.
8-13D-10-9: Wildlife Conservation
       1. The clustering of buildings and related landscape is encouraged to maximize contiguous
          open space.
       2. Fencing across critical migration corridors will be limited to a maximum height and
          minimum kick space as recommended by Idaho Department of Fish and Game. If
          barbed wire fencing is used, the bottom wire shall be smooth.
       3. All new landscape material on lots outside building envelopes will be required to be


ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 588
        drought tolerant, native and from a list of less palatable or nonpalatable plant species.
     4. Replanting of wildlife food species and plant species which enhance critical habitat is
        encouraged.
     5. The installation of noxious plants and weeds within the designated development
        envelope is prohibited by the builder or homeowner, and existing materials must be
        removed.
     6. Builders are required to employ "best practices" grading techniques including
        incremental phasing/reparation, dust controls, grading limit fencing, etc.
     7. Modifications to natural drainageways are limited to those which are absolutely
        necessary or those which increase the effectiveness of the drainageway in carrying
        storm water and accommodating wildlife.
     8. Exposed dumping and composting is prohibited (covered composting is permitted).
     9. Residential trash is required to be kept inside the house, garage, or appropriate
        enclosure until the morning of trash collection. Encourage trash containers to have
        attached lids.
     10. Dogs and cats are required to be in latchable carriers or on leashes when outside the
         residential or commercial lots during critical migration periods as determined by Idaho
         Fish and Game.
     11. Contractors will be prohibited from bringing dogs to construction sites.
     12. Motorized vehicles will be limited from roads and trails (four-wheel drive vehicles,
         snowmobiles, and motorcycles) except for construction, fire, emergency, and
         maintenance vehicles.
     13. Wildlife educational materials will be included and an acknowledgment of wildlife
         presence and the potential for property damage in the project's homeowners' documents.
     14. Big game crossing signs will be posted at major crossing points along Cartwright Road
         and Dry Creek Road (maximum four [4] signs). Where wildlife and development
         conflicts continue to occur despite these measures, Hidden Springs will work with
         local, State and Federal agencies in an attempt to resolve these conflicts.




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 589
       APPROVED AND ADOPTED this              day of                  , 20   .

                                  Board of Ada County Commissioners


                                  By:
                                        Rod Beck, Chairman


                                  By:
                                        Ryan Davidson, Commissioner


                                  By:
                                        Thomas Dayley, Commissioner

ATTEST:



Trent Tripple, Ada County Clerk


PUBLISHED:




ORDINANCE NO. _____ - PAGE 590
